[Music]
As we kill him
in the hood.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
What it good me? This is your boy N O R
E. What up? DJ EFN and it's been crazy
Crazy Raw. Yawa make some noise.
[Applause]
And right now I want to tell you
arguably
this is probably the one of the if not
the best one of the greatest hip-hop or
producers overall of all time. The man
can make anything. He can produce
movies, make scores.
He can produce your producers. producer
producer
that produces the other producer.
They look up to him. He has put together
one of the most legendary
groups of all times. There will never be
another. There was never one before and
there will never be another one after.
They are the alpha and omega.
It's a person that I look up to in a lot
of ways. If it wasn't for what they did
in hip-hop, it wouldn't have trickled
down to what people did after me after
that in hip-hop and that led to me. So,
in a lot of ways, this is his show
regardless if he claims it or not.
In case you don't know what he's talking
about, talking about Bobby [__]
digital, Prince Rahhee, [__]
the mother.
Man, I I ain't going to lie to you. Um,
we've been trying to get you from the
beginning, you know what I mean? Because
because of But I I I'm going to tell you
something. And I know I'm bouncing
around, but I'm going to tell you
something. I went I was in Paris 2 days
prior to Woo and N coming to Paris. So I
I I looked at my wife and I was like,
it's no way I'm in Paris and I'm going
to leave knowing that brother is coming.
I was like, we got to stay two more
days. So she's like, no problem.
I went and I tried to like be like
incognito, right? Cuz I wanted to like
actually see the show like as a fan when
I tell you and I'm not saying this I'm
cuz I say this when they not around,
right? That's arguably the best show,
not hip-hop show. The best show I've
ever seen. That's right. Right now, let
me let me break it down for you. Why I'm
sitting there as a fan, Steve Ripken is
trying to just like grip me to the back
and I'm like, I don't want to go to the
back. Like I actually want the like the
the regular seat. I want to sit down.
The people was recognizing me. I was
like, "Not today, motherfucker." Like
the fans was like, "I'm not today." Like
I'm I'm a fan. So I what I didn't know
was y'all shared the stage. It It really
It's really a Wuang N show. Nas Wuang
show. It's not like like one is opening
up for each other. Who came up with that
idea and how the hell did this come
about? No. In the beginning, me and Nas
both talked about like this has to be
like a co- headline like right like like
you know we not open it up for each
other. You know what I mean? That's that
doesn't doesn't make sense. Um, so from
the beginning we thought of that but
then the idea was like now how to bring
that to reality right and you know I
make movies and film and stories and so
I was like you know I got some ideas and
then uh I built with the garden and he
you know I said it what what the going
to direct the tour right right I was
like yeah you know what I mean and so
and so we you know we we just built it
like that and whoever else came involved
cuz Buster was was on that one was
Buster Hall wasn't on the Paris one. No,
no, cuz I know we had Buster and
Daylight. We was going Yeah, that was
the next one. Right. But point being
made is that no matter who came on that
tour, the idea was that we're not moving
as a competition with each other. We're
moving as a movement like a the the the
goal is for the audience to be
entertained by the hip-hop culture, you
know what I mean? So, we not never
trying to outdo each other or none of
that. You know what I mean? The music,
the vibe, the energy is like you in
Paris, we taking you back to New York,
right? You know what I mean? When we hit
London, Dublin, right? This is a New
York State of Mind, right? So the tour
So the tour was called New York State of
Mind, right? Um cuz didn't you do two
tours? Yeah, we did we did two rounds
and they was both called New York State
of Mind. Okay, my bad. And so so the
funny thing though is Nas didn't pitch
the idea of New York State of Mind.
That's my idea. Oh wow. That's his song.
You know what I mean? But I'm like, yo,
we moving like this with the Woo and
Nas. That's a New York state of mind.
I'm saying some of my Woo brothers was
like, that's dope, but how about New
York state of mind? You know what I
mean? State of mind. Yeah. Yeah. I said
non cipher. Non cipher. Like like like
nah nah New York state of mind is
perfect. You know what I mean? Then we
going Buster came. Same thing. Everybody
know that at the end of the day, you
know, hip hop is gone worldwide and does
what it does, but it still has it mecca.
It still has it found. Yeah, that's New
York, right? You know what I mean? So,
cut that [__] Go ahead.
Mecca, you know what I mean? And so, and
so and so that tour was was was was the
50th year anniversary of itself, right?
So, it's like, yo, let's go New York.
Let's let people feel what that is. And
you guys sequenced it like a mixtape
almost. Yeah, that's what I felt like. I
felt like it was a mixtape. Was that on
purpose? And a play
and a play had a baby.
It was like it was theatrical. It was
ups down like every we found so we found
what I would say is um we found points
of connection that happens. Right. So
thanks to Nas and Mob Deep and Raycoin
and Ghost and the songs they did
together, right? Thanks for the Cuba
Link album which had that song verbal
intercourse, right? And another song
they did over the years we had
intersection marks connecting the dots.
Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's like
so Nas came out on verbal intercourse,
right? You know what I mean? And then
when he came out that it was still part
of the rule set, but then we transition
away and he goes into it and then he
gets back to A and I and Ray Quan joins
him on that. Then he brings Ghost and
Kappa. Then we transition it back and
forth and it just was like tag team
relay race, you know what I mean? And
and and and that that you got to give uh
grace to Nas too because it's like it's
almost like he's he's he's holding it
down with nine other people. Like that
[__] is hard. Yeah. Well, I mean, first
of all, you know, Nas is one of the
greatest, but also in that capacity
though, we was all one. That's right.
Like like like he was like, "Yo, I'm the
I'm the I'm the 10th 11." 20 of them,
right? many of us. But but at the time
at that time it was like no just we just
it's and you know what what we were
saying to each other I don't mind you
know this is a show where people come
and talk and they open up right what we
were saying to each other backstage you
know what I mean even with bus and
everybody who joined through all
throughout the process was like this is
just good for for the culture it's good
for black men to see all this alpha
energy work together not compete not
fighting over this or squandering over
this not arguing over the economics or
none of that. It was like it's good.
It's a good model for for the rest of
the world to see. That was like our
backstage talk. We knew that yo this is
what the this is kind of like what the
community needs to be doing. Right.
Right. You know what I mean? Get off of
that if they call it black on black,
white on white or whatever. You know I
mean we going love on love. You know
what I mean? You you know what's the
beauty about that that I I got to see
and like I said I was sneaking backstage
at first until yall performed and then
after y'all performed kind of like
reveal but what I got to see is each
individual grow like I remember like
going backstage
I remember seeing Ray and Ghost on one
side and and Yugard and Cav on one side
like it used to be like like almost like
a like like I don't know if it was like
Park Hill and and Stapleton and Brooklyn
like I don't know But when I got to see
it this time, like I guess this is
everyone coming together as grown men
and and understanding. I got to see the
love. Like I got to really see like
y'all as brothers. Like I'm sitting
there like holy [__] Like cuz I'm still
a fan because I'm your friends and I'm
like I consider it family too. Like I'm
still a fan. So I'm sitting there and
just watching y'all and I just see h how
happy y'all are when y'all together.
when y'all together like that [__] is
like I know I'm an outsider but I I
could see that [__] and I could be like
yo like cuz when when y'all get together
do y'all reminisce of the beginning or
y'all reminisce y standing in the you
never know though you know what I mean
you know but it's the beautiful thing is
so much history and the history is so
intertwined right like you say you know
to the degree of you know children like
my sister got children by ghost you know
what I mean like the family is crazy.
You know, meth wife and Yugos, you know,
first mother of his seed, the sisters.
It's like this this, you know, I mean,
me and Ray Quan, third grade together.
So, you know, the the the community of
it all, I think, is what keeps it um
everlasting. That's why Wu Tank Forever.
And I just think that at any given
moment, you don't know which one of your
brothers got that spark of chi, that's
what you needed. Right. Right. You know
what I mean? I might be on a high
mountain thinking, you know, whatever is
on some Rizzle [__] you know what I
mean? But I but I needed to see you
guard that day. I mean, just just just
because my shoes start getting too
pointy, you know what I mean? It's like,
hold on, God. You got to round them off
a little bit too pointy on your shoes.
So, it's like still sharp and still, you
know what I mean? And that's and that's
what we do for each other. And I think I
know I ain't going to say I think it's
like every time that Voltron comes
together Yes. You know what I you get to
form that blazing sword, you know what I
mean? So, bung bong. And now you guys
are going into the new tour. Yeah. The
new tour which which we we called the
final chamber. Um, and that's going back
to like us, you know, running around the
globe one more time together, right? You
know what I mean? We we touched the
globe, yo. You know what I mean? And you
got to think about, you know, you you
know, you MC hip hop, you know, all the
success that hip-hop gave us and it's
like, do you go back and give back to
all the people that actually through
their consumption of your material
allowed you to put your son through
college or allowed you to, you know, I
mean, up in your 5,000 square ft or
whatever, you know what I mean? How do
you go back and will you go back? You
know what I mean? And for us, it's hard
to get us all together regardless
because of that. We was but we this is
all part of a plan. You know what I
mean? One thing that I strive to do is
plan ahead. So, but you planned a
30-year plan. You you you knew that
y'all would be here 30 years later. This
what I said though. Okay. This what I
did say and you could vouch this from
another brother in the team. I said when
we came based on the energy we was
bringing, right? The talent level,
the the unorthodox, the the the that you
for the universal that W for that
wisdom. What we was bringing. I said
I don't see nothing coming like this.
It's going to take 25 years. 20 years
before the system itself
starts to catch up. Yeah. Yeah. I think
20 years before it was like okay now
there the talent level of others are
starting at that talent level. Right.
Okay. And then I said but maybe I said
when that happens though our plane is
going to land right. I said now we could
land like this right or we can land like
this. M and if we land like this, you
know what I mean? That's why 30 years.
Yeah. Okay. And that's what we we on
this one, baby.
This a nose job. Let me let me let me
know. Let me let you know if you know
this expression. Thank you. Whenever a
person people have like, you know, a
commoder like it's it's a bunch of
people and people say, "Yo, you know, we
want to break it up and put this person
over there, this person there." You know
what people call it? Go ahead. It's
whizer.
Do you know that? No, I know that.
That's a good That's a good because you
got to remember like y the first group
ever in existence, right, that had one
record label with the whole group,
right? And then pieced off each That
[__] is genius.
Hold on. Let's take a shot of that.
Salute. What is this? What is this? I
like I like that you got more. Okay.
Okay. All right. So, we're drinking saki
today. All right. So the reason why we
drinking saki watch the show you drink
what you drink but
it's only two liquors I like like this
that gives you a upper okay all right
one is tequila yes and the other is saki
now saki though doesn't have ethanol
alcohol in it this is fermented all
right so this fermentation meaning you
don't get no headache and all that so
this is if you going to drink no
vomiting fluid no abomin we don't drink
that fermentation I like what does that
mean we ran into each a few time.
Oh, that's smooth. Yeah, it is smooth.
So, let me
ice.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yes. We got We got We We going get
fullfledged Saki lessons from It's
called Heavenly Saki, right? Yeah. Oh,
this Oh, this particular Saki. Yeah.
Sorry, mama. Do you want me to put the
bucket here or is it okay? I'm gonna put
some ice in there and pit it like that.
That's right. Yeah. There you go. Like
give us that bottle service. Yeah. Yeah.
There you go.
I'm only joking.
It's all good. It's all So, so because
me as a person that was trying to get in
the industry, I was a young kid. I was I
probably like what was it and what what
year the Wuang finally came up? first
album was 93. 93. 93. I have the flyer
from the first Miami show in '94.
That's dope. So me, I was too young to
understand. I thought all of y'all was
on the same label when people was like,
"No, idiot."
I mean, yeah, they really did. You mean
when the individual projects? Yes. When
when All right. First off,
when I seen me on the bus, what was
that? Bring the pain. Now, bring the
pain wasn't on 36 channels, right?
[__] right? Jam. I was confused cuz I'm
like, why they ain't got that logo with
the logo, right?
So, this is this I swear to God, I don't
even think I'm asking this for the fans.
I think I'm asking this for myself.
Like, what made you say, you know what,
everyone puts their they what's that
[__] Put their peas in the same bucket
or
your eggs in one in one basket. That's
what I meant. So what made you say was
that the plan or is that how it
developed? It was it was the plan as
well as uh the evolution of the plan. So
what I mean by that is that you know at
the end of the day you know we all you
know how can I put that I don't like to
talk too much about the street hustle
side of things right but coming from a
street hustle right what you need mostly
in a street hustle is what a connect.
Mhm. All right. So once you got the
connect, then you could kind of be up in
the building. Right. So loud is the
connect, right? Right. So we So loud,
you know, at the time, you know, you
know, Steve Riiffken, of course, being a
a intelligent executive, one of the best
executives cuz Steve Rifken was an
executive that didn't get interfered
with the art, right? His job was to
market it and do it. Your job, he was a
young dude at the time into hip-hop.
Yeah. But your job was to cook it. His
job was to serve it. You know what I
mean? Um but what we but he didn't have
the um at the time the business couldn't
sustain all of us. We knew that you
couldn't take this even if somebody
would have threw a M and hip hop wasn't
getting no M's back then but even a M
ain't going to feed this whole family
so the idea was like well let's make the
connect with him okay make that a piece
of business but then make connects with
other partners throughout the industry
right so that we can first economically
be able to maintain the organization and
then so that's the economic decision the
creative decision was Yes. So, I'm a guy
in the industry that came through the
industry and failed, right? According to
how you would say success would be
Prince the Prince Rock uh EP, you know
what I mean? You know, 10 20,000 units
wasn't enough to hit that threshold.
Even though right now 10 and 20,000
units right now is like you keep
popping. No, no, no. You popping now. It
went backwards. It went backwards again.
I know that you were a major. What was
the Tommy boy? Tommy boy. They still
independ independent major indie major
like a major indie. Right. But the gag
for me was, you know, I had to hit a
certain number in order to get that
album budget, right? I didn't hit that
number boy. I didn't get that album
budget. Wow. You had a threshold that
you had to meet. You had a threshold.
So, but point being made is that but I
had a chance also to see the industry in
a way that it was just doggy dog. Mhm.
For what? You're sorry for what it was.
Yeah. But I said in my psyche that yo,
what if I get the industry to work
together?
all for my blade. You know what I mean?
So I intentionally was like if Def Jam
have somebody, if Geffin have somebody,
if Warner Electra have somebody, BMG
loud have somebody, you know what I
mean? Eventually went west coast and got
priority to get something. Right. The
industry is
um almost unintentionally working on
your behalf working on the behalf of Wu.
Right. So, let me ask you. I'm sorry to
cut you off cuz I I really don't. You
follow me on that though? Yeah. Okay.
But that and that's not illegal, right?
No, that ain't illegal. That was by
design. Like that you know I'm asking
you that illegal. Well, you know what
I'm saying? What I'm saying is like you
know when when a group is signed it's
like I would have known. Oh no no
because see now that's in in our
industry cuz he was they was just wide
not man. In our industry you don't you
don't want that to happen. There's pros
and cons to that, right? I don't want to
get too deep on the business, right? I
want to spend more time building with
you than talking about the business,
right? But I will say the beauty of it,
let me say the beauty of it is that
after Wu Tank 36 came, Method, man, all
these sisters going platinum, bro. You
know what I mean? Right. And then the
last album to come in that first swing
of the solo albums was just a liquid
swords. Right. Right. And when he came,
by the time he came, you got Electra,
Loud, right, Death Jam, and now Geffin,
and even G Street, cuz we have the gold
albums with Gravediggers, right?
Back in those days, you had to buy floor
space in the record stores, right? And
you had to buy that in order, you know,
to get your records there. All five
labels put their money together to have
Wu in the front and put the Wuang tree
in the front.
And yo, and even though Jizzer was the
album that came out and he hit the
number one rap album or whatever, right?
Everybody who had catalog [__] doubled
their sales. Like so say a dude was
doing 20,000 normally, right? 40. Now
you're doing 40, kid. Because the
industry is combining. It's like what a
playlist would be today. If someone's
popping on the playlist, it runs down
the playlist. You know what? I never
thought of that. Yeah, it was it was the
first playlist.
Physical.
Now, now who was somebody you did
business with that you wish you did? I
wish I didn't. Yeah. That's that's a
deep question. I got plenty of them.
Okay.
You need an example. I got ready. Well,
but I can answer that one quick for you.
Uh it was this gentleman uh by the name
of uh I think his name was Rock. Okay.
It was the first lesson in record
business 101 for me which was he we were
selling protect your next by ourselves
right out of our trunks. Oh wow. But but
if you got lucky you could get it to a
onetop. Mhm. Right. You get it to a one
stop that's like they may take 5,000
copies. We was getting them. We was we
was getting we was moving units. We
moved, you know, tens of thousands
before we finally got to Loud. Wow.
Right. That's what made Loud. The One
Stop is the regional distributors.
Exactly. But my man, my man Rock, sorry.
My man Rock, he was representing the
Onetop, he said. Uhhuh. And he took, you
know, let's just say 5,000 copies, you
know what I mean? And boom, we he sold
him. But then now we coming for the
cream. He ain't got the cream, right?
You know what I mean? And it's just like
what? And we don't understand that. But
this is your friend from the hood or
industry guy. This is an industry guy.
Are we selling? Moo met him. Moo was
like, "Yo, this guy, he's going to take
5,000 copies." We like, "That's nice."
Boom. Press go up. Let's go. Let's go.
You get him to work. Yeah. Yeah. No, we
we going to rock and show. Rock and soul
was hitting us with cash. It's cash on
delivery. But you hit him on. His
concite. Okay. All right. And he don't
pay. Wow. So now you don't pay. So now
we step we step in kind of we stepped in
aggressive you know that just at those
young age and he was like uh it was like
it wasn't going to go well right but
with him who worked with him was the two
brothers who I respect to this day the
Alen brothers you know brothers yeah the
yes yes very righteous brothers yeah
they're very righteous and they was
there
called on me I'm sorry they said they
they advised us Okay. Cuz they couldn't,
nobody can stop us, right? But they
advised like, "Yo, listen.
Let this go, right?" You know what I
mean? You guys got a whole thing ahead
of you. If you go and do what you're
going to do here, it could end here,
right? Because it's like that's that's
it could be some gangster [__] and at
the end of the day
you're not going to grow because you
know when you're young you don't know
that you know like all the cases that my
brothers had is because being young
right and so you don't know that yo you
knocked this dude out you stomped this
dude out that could stop your whole
career that's because your physical
aggression. Yeah. So we took advice from
him. But wait hold up but how does it
get through to you guys in that moment?
No, no, because well I still negotiated.
He had he had a studio
but I was okay. You know what? Pay us
back in studio time.
So we had to So we found the we call it
a diplomatic solution, right? Which was
pay us back in studio and they did the
song Method Man that became the next
single was cuz was done in that scene in
that studio. We went there and I I I and
it sounds a little better than protect
your neck sonically. Okay. because I'm
now in a real studio. Okay. With a
little SSL and all that. So it had it
had a So this explains a lot. Yeah. The
way sonically
Yeah. So so so so that was so that was a
solution. But doing business with him
was like it it almost made me say like
[__] the [__] the gang. You know what I
mean? Because it's like I didn't I don't
I didn't expect
somebody to do my package like that. You
know what I mean? It's like your
package, you give him a package, you
bung bung bunk. So So I didn't expect
that to happen. Nor none of us did. Me
power you know Divine at the time Moo
all of us but the solution was just your
diplomat solution right. Yeah. So Mars
Scelli was that oh
I like I like where you went with it.
Was trying to say what I say. He said
Marco said but you knew what you put the
you tried to pick the SK.
Yeah, take a shot for that. Let's
can't take a shot of Oh, no. That's
right. Let's Let's skip. Let's take
Let's take a shot for for for for the
for the for the for the interview
in this history.
Nice. This to me is genius as well,
right? How does this happen? Does this
guy step to you and say, "I want a I
want No, they they created it already."
Okay. Yeah, I'm asking. Yeah. So, yeah.
So, we talked about this a lot already,
so I'm I'm
going to hit hit. I only got so much
time with you. Okay, let's go. Let's go.
I will I will say this though about it,
right? Mhm. It was an idea that one of
my students, you know, kind of
germinated, right? And it was kind of
cohesive with the idea I had, which was
to me, music is art and should be
treated as such. Right. At this time,
music was being devalued. Right. Right.
Right. So it's like now we got to find a
way to put value back into it. And
people mostly value what they can't
have. All right. So all right then they
can't have this, right? Only one we only
make one copy and and it's going to you
got to go to a museum to hear it. You
know what I mean? That was the ambition
of it. Uh so we started soliciting and
and and the funny thing is different
um millionaires and even billionaires
was acting like they was going to buy
it. You know what I mean? It was like it
was cuz that's the auction business.
Sbees and Paddleweight. That's what they
do, right? Um, but then I met this kid.
He was still a kid and he wasn't famous
yet. Marin. Okay. Maybe at the time he
was probably worth a couple hundred mil.
So he was really a baby in compared to
the other biders. Okay. Okay. The other
biders had bills.
But he had came to the little listening
and he heard it. He heard like a little
12 minutes and he was like, "Yo,
whatever he heard,
he needs that album. He needs the Enigma
time code machine." Exactly. Right. And
the and the Turning Papers, right? This
is all some historical [__] Wait, the
the Enigma has nothing to do with
Listen, that's what I'm trying to point
from World War II. Yeah. He's getting
the last one. They got like the one
that's the the last living. He's getting
that. He's getting the tuning papers of
the guy who designed this [__] This is
the guy who made the first computer
arguably
and the Wuang album.
That's dope though. That's about all
three of these shits, right? And so I
told I said, "Yo, you know, this album
is like, you know, all albums like our
babies, you know what I mean? So you got
to be treating this thing with the
highest respect." And that's when he
told me I'm going to do all that. And
when he get all three of these things,
he said he's going to become like a
powerful man in the world, right? I was
like, "Wait, wait." You know what I
mean? Bung bong. And I hear about some
other things. No. No. And so he does it,
right? And I kind of I kind of make the
make the deal with him, right? Then I'm
home, my wife and [__] We chilling. She
knows about it and all that. And then
he's on the news. And she she's like,
"Uh, hey, um, baby, isn't that the guy
that's that's uh that you made the deal
with disclosure or it wasn't?" It was
also NDA. Okay. And they still working
out the deal, you know, all the
paperwork [__] But then he shows on TV
as the evilst man alive prescriptions,
right?
He was going medication. Yeah. Okay.
Okay. So, but but I'm like, "Oh, shit."
Boom. But I already shook hands with
him. I already made a deal. So, so I,
you know, your world is your bond. You
know what I mean? So, you know, we went
through with it. But I did say this to
him. I said, "Bro, you got a lot of bad
[__] on you." Mhm.
I would advise that you take this whole
album and do something good. I said,
"Maybe just give it to the people." Wow.
Like, I don't know what to do. I said,
"This is a chance for you to do good."
He smiled at me and doubled down on bad
[__] Wow. Did more bad. He went He went
He went He went in. He went in. He
caught Beef for Ghost Face and
everything. That was crazy. He went in
anyway. And he went in. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. But it is it is on record uh
right now. The album when it was resold,
it was resold for uh over 4 million. He
bought it for two, resold it for over
four or the government took it, then
they auctioned it off. So, it's it's one
of those it's like it appreciates like a
house or some [__] It's like it gets
more and more valuable over time. And it
and it did make the Guinness World
Records as uh the most expensive single
album in the history. You know what I
mean?
You said something earlier. You said
give it to the people. Is that an option
in the contract that they could actually
give it to? You could give it. You can't
sell it. Can't sell it. Oh, but the
government didn't make that contract
with you so they could auction it. Well,
the government No, they No, cuz they got
it from him and then they were able to
auction it. They can only auction it as
a single unit like a painting. It's
almost like a NFT or like that's what I
thought I was like first NFT. I was
going to say that. Yeah. You say it's
like it's like a first NFT. It's like
even if somebody paint you got a it's
only one Mona Lisa. Yo, right. You know
what I mean? That's just what it is. I
mean you got people that got the t-shirt
ever seen the real Mona Lisa? That [__]
is like this small. Yeah.
I'm like
you know your house. What? Where you
been? Yo,
I'm going to Monaco on Sunday. Monaco.
How many people from Queens? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Left rack. Left city. Left
city. We go to cuz um the documentary,
right,
where everybody was mad at your brother,
right? And then I got to see brothers
kick it at at uh Wayon's wedding. Okay.
So
like that that was the part of the
documentary obviously you know I'm an
outsider looking in
that was the part like because Wuang was
known to keep family business in family.
This is the first time I've ever the
first time I've ever seen that but then
I seen so so me as a person that's like
like you know I I got to see that it's
it's love there on that Showtime
documentary it looked different looked
contentious. What? What? What's your
explanation for that? Wait for the for
the way it looks on the documentary.
Yes. Yes. Editing. Okay.
Okay. Okay. I like I like that. Let's
take a shot. No. No. We got We got the
Japanese cup. Um the Japanese. Look,
they somewhat Japanese.
Yeah. She tried to redeem us.
You got So, one other thing with saki.
Okay. If you're drinking heaven sake, uh
which is actually a sake that's um
polished. The rice was polished very
fine for this. Like it's all about how
you polish the rice to get the best
fermentation. And then also a French
wine master finish this off. That's why
it's so smooth. But there's one rule.
You can't pour your own saki. Yes. So I
need you to pour me. Okay. That's right.
Yeah. You never pour your own Hey, you
can't Don't do that. No one. So we can
take this shot. Cheers. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Bang.
I'm sorry if I'm doing all the rules.
She like she's like this guy. No, we
need to learn. No, no, no, no. We need
to learn. There you go. So when we have
[__] Jackie Chan come here
together. You know what I'm saying? Like
yo Rizza taught us [__]
Exactly. I'm sorry. Yeah. Yeah. So um
real quick in the Showtime documentary
it was talking about um how some of the
brothers was angry with Divine based on
business. Right. Right. And and every
artist may have been through this. and
you an artist so you may be able to
relate to this. So the argument with the
go what Devon was saying to Ghost face
was yo the ghost said if I make a
million dollars how much you get right I
think Devon said you know 20% 10 10 20
maybe 10% because we kept we kept that
modest most managers take 20% of your
money right your agent takes 10% if you
make a M 30% is gone right right and go
said now [__]
I want my whole M.
So what happens is the artist don't
realize that your art definitely creates
value. Yes. But it's music business,
right? And so the business side has to
go and and what feeds that? So if a
artist is only if a manager is only
getting 10%. You know what I mean? You
getting 900. Mhm. Right. You may want
your whole joint, but it's like, yo, no,
this is business. And so when you're in
that business position, in a way you're
going to you're looked almost you're
looked down upon in a way, right?
Because the artist is thinking like,
"Yo, I signed for a million dollars.
Where's my million?" Mhm. Right. It's
like, "Nah, yo." And they forget what
the manager taking with the agent take
and the lawyers too. The lawyer don't
man my man Uncle Sam. And I ain't
talking about Sam Jackson, you know what
I mean? You coming in like Yeah. down.
So, so Devon has always been the
business savvy one of us. So when he got
out of out of the system, right, he got
a job at the World Trade Center. Wow.
Cleaning carpets. Wow. But he was
reading all that [__] Mhm. You know
what I mean? So by the he was studying
all that [__] So So he he was doing
Quickbooks. I'm making beats on my
computer. He's doing accounting [__]
He's learning managing [__] you know
what I mean? And his deal, if you go
back and you check and and I'm not just
uh bigging him up because he's my
brother, but if you go back and you
check, you know, every company besides
Wuang Production. So, Wuang Production,
I started that myself personally. Took
my last 10 G's, I had a choice. Let me
I'll share this with you. I had a
choice, bro. Me and Tony had $20,000,
right? And the plan was to go hook up
with my uncle Joe and get a break.
I just knew Uncle Joe wasn't good. I'm
just
my man though.
Check it out. What you say? It's the way
you said Uncle Joe for my pops. That's
my my brother. My pop's first cousin. So
we he so we go down
and we we we see Uncle Joe. Mhm. But at
the same time, I got a seed in the oven.
I got knowledge of self that's clear now
cuz I'm not smoking a drink. So my brain
waves are super clear. And we down. I'm
not a vegan. I knocked out like 17
chicken wings that
you know what I mean? Eight legs. I'm
going in like and we talking about it.
It's like you boom, you'll get it to
North Carolina. I get it from North
Khaki and bring it to the packy, right?
But on that trip, yo,
I decided to leave without it.
Came back to New York empty-handed. I
had the money, right? And I told Tony
like, "Nah, I'm done. I'm done
negative." Mhm. Right. Cuz every time we
did something negative, something went
wrong. Somebody got locked up. Somebody
got shot or you got to you got to get
your biscuit. And it says negative
breeds negative. In the Bible it says
for every negative action you do I give
you one in return. It says but for every
positive action you do I multiply you by
10.
So I was like yo I gave Ghost his half
took my half. And I actually told him I
said yo bro love you. Go on with your
life man cuz Ghost is so real that way
we was going he would have jumped in
front of the bullet. You know what I
mean? And I was like, "Nah, God, I
appreciate everything, but go ahead. I
got to figure something else out." And I
just walked. I walked for days and days
and days. People thought I was going
crazy a little bit. But I was
formulating. Mhm. And I realized what I
had to do. I'm going to give a shout out
to um Mr. um James Smith. He's the
father of Mel Quan. Mel Kuan was uh my
first manager. I'm I'm giving him a
shout out because
I used to go to his crib and he believed
in his son Mel Cron. So he started a
record label called Jamaica Records and
that's where he had a group called the
Divine Force on it. So I boo and all of
them right from uh Pink Houses, right?
But I always went to his house cuz I was
signed as a as a as an artist. I used to
borrow $300 for the rent. I stopped
scrambling and all that at at this time.
Right. But he always had boxes of
records stored in his crib. And I
realized that the record company was his
house.
The Brownstone was the label. Oh wow. So
So I took my tenies and went and sat
down with him. Played a few games of
chess and said, "I want to start a
company." He said, "Yo, you go talk to
Mr. Warren.
Mr. Warren will help you." I went to
talk to Mr. Bill Warren. We formed the
Wuang Production. I put the money in the
lawyer. put the money in the bank,
formed the company, formed contracts,
and then took this idea and start to my
brothers like, "Yo, this is what I this
is the plan." So, so before you formed
the company, you didn't have them fully
assigned to you. No. So, you had to go
to them and convince them that
I had to form a company and then I ain't
going to say convince my brothers. I
would say advise my brothers, right? Cuz
you going to go anyway whether they got
you or not. Yeah. Okay.
say, you know what I mean? But let's go
together, right? You know what I mean?
So, look, by myself at the end of the
day, no disrespect to nobody. And I I'm
a guaranteed gold artist, right? I got
gold Bobby. There's those gold brave
[__] with my Wuang brother, I'm
multi-platinum, right? Exactly. You know
what I mean? So, you Yeah. Yeah. By
myself, I'm But together, the community
eats, right? Look how many families eat
off of this [__] tree. Yo, you know
what I mean? So, I wanted to share that
share that piece with you because what
was the date that you that you made the
company? Like around what year? This is
probably the company is 92. Okay. Right.
And then protect your neck comes out. I
make the company first. Um and then
after the company uh started um gearing
up equipment, Wayne got power to join
me, help gear up equipment. Um gave him
the vine control of management. Mhm. But
I told him nobody takes nobody's
publishing. publishing always stayed
with the artist. I read the book, you
know what I mean? Right. Um and um yeah,
and and and and built it. So the point I
was saying by sharing that with you is
that the idea to do wrong was trumped by
the idea to do right. And then the idea
to do right multiplied my entire family,
my entire team and to this day, right?
Like you think about um the Wu Tank
series, right? on Hulu. On Hulu,
all you know, I'll take now. I got 10
new young men, right? Actors. Some of
them is their first gig, right? Turning
them to millionaires. That's what we
just we had DMX on the show, right? And
DMX, so I said something to him and DMX
said, "I stopped dissing rap whack
rappers." And I said, "Oh yeah, why?"
And he said, "Because every one rapper
can feed 16 families." So just think
about that. Think about what you do.
If XY is right, right is right. You
funded a whole village, a whole town. At
least Connecticut.
No more. No more.
[Applause]
You argue that Wuang had its own
economy. You created an economy that was
Wuang. Yeah. N that that's crazy. So,
let me tell you a story that's that's
funny, right? I met you one time at the
Woo store. Okay. I had came to a a
opening and then um I think I one time
in Mystic Studios in in in St. Right.
But then one time we was in a Hit
Factory Studio. This is I'm finally
getting I'm finally like hot. Like I'm I
was one of those times I met you. I was
coming up. I'm finally hot. I'm finally
hot. Like it's like the NE album. I'm
steaming. I p I pull up. You're already
in. You're already I don't I think you
were leaving. I couldn't I couldn't
tell. It was like 15 of y'all
and I can tell you exuded out your mind.
I look but this is right. So I'm like oh
[__] like but I got to be cool about it.
I got to be cool but I still the suspens
right. So you said to me you said to me
he's like I made the beat exactly how
you wanted it. And I was like he said
exactly how you told me to do it. I made
it. And I'm like word up. But it wasn't
you.
I wasn't making him. Yeah, you made it
with me. But he was like, "You want to
hear it?" I was like, "Yeah." I came
upstairs. You played me the most amazing
beat ever. Get the [__] out of here. And
Trackmaster Tone said, "Yo, Nory, give
me one second." And and I I went outside
to get one second. And what's crazy
about that, Trackmaster Tone introduced
me to 50 Cent. Wow. And I turned around
and your van drove off. I was like, "Oh
my god, I didn't get to beat. You never
got the beat. Man, that's crazy. You
don't remember cuz you know as hell. No.
Yo, but that's I tell that story all the
time. You know what's so crazy? Back in
those I just saw. So the Jiza will
always be filming us, right? You know he
was going to Let's take a shot for that
beat. Okay. Shot for that beat. The beat
that we never heard.
Hey yo, bro.
Yeah. I realize this is really good
though, by the way. Good. Right. Hold
on. Hold on. Hold on. Cuz now cuz you
know at first I was I was you know I was
going to like it whether cuz you know
what I'm saying like that. I was like no
matter what [__] I was I was with the
program. No no no. I was with the
program. But this is actually good. No.
This is this is this is Especially if
you drink it in the daytime, right? You
could drink this at lunch and still go
back to the office cuz you said this is
a upper upper. Exactly. We not getting
soggy face here. Okay. Yeah. You know
what I mean? We getting like the big
back. I'm not going to lie.
[Applause]
What's up? What's up with the rewind? I
like I mean, you know what I'm saying?
You got to die a little bit. You know
what I mean? To live a little bit.
Sometimes you got to die a little bit.
You know what I mean?
You
die.
[__]
So, see gray hair is gray hair. Gray
hair is like colonist. Okay. colonist
trying to make their like a colonist
[__] me up. Yeah, [__]
they done invaded your whole content.
But you you know what you probably as a
as an artist, right? And you artist,
right? But I think like I mean I got to
say this and [__] I think like when you
thinking about like our image, our look
and all that. I don't know like as an
artist you kind of almost like have a
responsibility to try to keep your
physical physical and everything almost
the same if you can because like that's
the um that's the yeah that's the image
of your that's your commodity right you
know what I mean I mean you look at this
box right here I mean you got the smile
and [__] I mean this is this business
right here
business and it's beautiful I'm I'm
proud of you got to send me a couple of
boxes you got you good I told I said I
said I got Riz here. I'm trying to get
Riza down with the with the with the
crew. You know what I'm saying? Come on.
God damn it. So So I want a gun in the
box.
We [__] with you. Let me switch the
subject for a little bit.
Acting.
One of my favorite roles you did is with
umh what's that [__] When Adam Santa
sick and you and uh funny people funny
people. Yeah. Yeah. Like
is acting something that attracted you
to that world or is it scoring the
movies that bring you there? Yeah. No, I
wasn't I wasn't like
I didn't I didn't forecast myself being
an actor, right? I forecasted,
you know,
being an actor is almost a dream, right?
We kids watching TV. It's unattainable
almost. Yeah. Yeah. you don't think
you're going to be on that silver
screen. But what happened I think for me
and the fortunate was when I was scoring
movies. Um I had a chance I I got a this
gentleman name usually don't give good
chi you know what I mean cuz he he he he
made a lot of big mistakes in in our
business and and he's in jail for uh but
you know what I'm talking about right?
Yeah. But he he he met me when I was
scoring Kill Bill. That's right. and he
saw my charisma as opposed to
[__] Yeah. So he saw he saw that I had
like a magnetism like a actor has to
have a magnetism I think and he so then
he was doing this movie called Derailed.
It was him and this other producer named
Lorenzo Lorenzo.
Damn Lorenzo I messed I ain't going I
mean drinking so I can't even say
Lorenzo's name right. So I said to my
brother Lorenzo let's say to a shot to
Lorenzo. to Lorenzo, producer of the
Matrix and GI Joe and all that
de
Vura. It gets better every single name.
Okay.
His name is Yeah. Let me say it again.
Lorenzo D Bonav. Let me say Lorenzo name
right, bro. Lorenzo D Bonav.
him and uh and uh and and Mr. Bong Bong
was doing a movie and uh he caught my
crib. Yo. Mhm. He's like, "Rizzle, I'm
doing a movie." You still got a crib
phone. This is This is This is This is
This is
got a clip phone. You still got a You
got to have a clip phone. Yo, what if
the satellite go wild? You can't hit
911.
You like this low battery, no nothing.
radio joints just in case. No, I got I
got a we we keep a hard wire, right?
Plus, we got an elevator in the crib and
and and you got No, and the law is you
have an elevator in the crib, you got to
have a hard wire phone. The elevator in
case that's a law, right? Right. But
that's not why I got the phone. Okay.
But
you got the back. Yes. But anyway, but
he calls the crib. He just says, "Uh,
Rizza, do my movie. You have a new
career now.
just like that. I was like, but I had to
go to London. Uhhuh. And so and I told
my wife, I said, "Well, I got to go to
London. They want me to do this movie."
You know, I said, "All right, bung
bunk." She didn't say bunk bunk, but she
said, you know what I mean? And so, bam,
I went to London. It was called
Derailed. Mhm. Now, check this [__] out.
So, I do this movie, right? in this
particular film. This is when you acted
in me actor and Clive Owens is the is
the star and um John Carlo Espazito,
right? And
my character is not going to make it
through the movie cuz you're black. I'm
sorry. Okay, I'm asking. Okay, that's a
question. I don't know. Okay, but it's
it's definitely rhetorical. It's
definely it's definitely stereotypical
of this particular film. Okay. Okay.
Right. My character ain't going to make
it. And I know that. I read the script.
Right. But I don't know how movies work.
Okay. This is your first one. Yes. My
first feature film. So I'm thinking when
I get there, everything is linear.
Uhhuh. Like my character going to do his
[__] He going to do his [__] Yeah. You
film backwards. Going to do his [__]
You don't know. You don't know which way
it's going to go, bro. But on day one,
they did the shot where they do me
dirty.
That's a mind [__] itself. Yo, check
it out. And they got to do prosthetics.
They put all this metal [__] around my
head. Put explosives. This [__] is this
[__] is this [__] is traumatizing. All
right. You know what I mean? They put a
quarter load.
Okay. So, this is not like this is like
this it changes my life. Mhm. You know
what I mean? Day one. BL.
I mean, first first shot of the day, you
know, they they prepped me like, "Yeah,
we're going to do this." And so so then
the movie goes on and I'm buying the
hole. Exactly. Day one. But then the
movie goes on, right? And then I said to
myself, "Well, [__] the character
definitely ain't making it."
No, there's no rewriting of that [__]
So I better do something to make the
character remember
memorable, right? And so I So there was
this dude in my hood that used to always
whistle every time he came around. And
he whistled so much that even when he
returned to the essence at his funeral,
one of his sons whistled and the whole
everybody just broke in tears because he
just had this whistle. And so I said,
I'm going to whistle every time my
character show up on screen so that when
it happens in the movie, the audience
going to feel me, right? So check it
out. So I do that and when they do the
testing when they put movies out they
test they test like who you like who you
don't like what so my character tested
so high that they gave him another scene
and it caused the casting agent to call
me for American gangster. You see what I
mean? But I ran into that director later
though and you was the police in
American gangster. You played a good
police. I ain't going to say police.
Don't get me honest with you. I did
good. I thought you was the boy. I
almost called you. I almost called you
like, "Man, I'm glad you like." Yo, I
did that good, right?
I'm the dude that was chased the most by
the cops. I ain't going to lie. Hey yo,
no. I got 19 arrests on my sheet, bro.
God damn it. When they when they when
they when they pulled it out one day,
and I'm not bragging about this. I just
saw it hit the floor. M this is this is
this is um this when I was like 19 and
the judge was like yo bro you got to go
sit down for a minute. No matter this
this is a petty it's a petty crime right
here right but it's too many
but let me go back to this director real
quick. I know you going to chop this up.
No problem. No problem. But yo so check
it out. So now I'm with the director
years later and you know I have some
success in in that field. I said yo let
me ask you this. Why on the very first
day did you kill my character? Like why
couldn't you let me like get used to the
set? He said and he's he's a he's a a
Swedish guy. He's like Bobby
actually I didn't know if you was going
to show up for the rest of the movie.
What? You know rappers they are
volatile. Oh [__] Seriously, they don't
come on time. So I I knew I needed that
shot. Oh [__] And once I got that, I
say whatever he do from here, I could
cut around. That's crazy. But no, but
that was a stigma for us. You got to
think about it. Hip-hop comes to
Hollywood, the trailers smell, it's I
mean, it's I'm saying when that when I
realized that I made it my business,
right, cuz I'm notoriously known for
being late. I made it my business not to
be. I made it my business to start being
a reliable entity for all of us so that
when they call somebody they know that
yo nah n these they okay you know what I
mean they'll show up because a lot of
hip hoppers when we was coming to the
film we we bought our hip-hop so we
didn't really have the respect for time
oh it's a different different anyway
bung bong right god damn let's make some
noise
I want to go and dive into gravediggers
copy can you can you Like what spawned
that project? Was it already something
in your mind in the Wuang beginnings?
No, the Gravediggers is a b a brainchild
of Prince Paul. Okay, so the
gravediggers um Prince Paul super
producer. Hold on. Let's let's let's
toast Prince Paul. Prince Paul is
amazing. He's a genius. Toast. I love a
genius. Love. I don't think he get
enough, you know. No, we need him on
drinks. Yeah, we need
cuz cuz grape dickers. I'm sorry. I'm
I'm I'm rushing the question, but was
Grave Diggers considered the first
horror rap? Consider it. Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. Were you considering it that
like hardcore? Was it a thing to you
guys doing that? No. I think like we
don't name our [__] We didn't even name
hip hop hip hop. The media the media
called it. The media called it hardcore.
We don't name it. You know that. But it
was it was his brainchild. He worked on
Tommy Boy with Da. He had a lot of
success and things like that. Look, I
met Prince Paul when I was doing Prince
Rock King. The high hats on my first
single
was done by Prince Paul. I never used to
use high hats. Even some of the woo you
go, "Well, this dude ain't put the high
hats in." Right. Paul was like, "No, you
need high hats." You know what I mean?
To keep the time. But he thought about
it and he said, um, four of his favorite
MC or three of his favorite MC's was
Fuantha Sonic, right? Which part of
Prince Rock came who who didn't make it
at the time and Too Poetic from Too
Poetic, right? He thought he thought as
a lyricist that he just loved us as
that. And so this is before Wuang. I'm
I'm working on Wuang, right? My own
business, my own company, all that. I'm
doing that. But I'm going to Long Island
three times a week to Prince Paul's
house for grave diggers. For grave dig.
It's parallel. I don't even I don't know
what's going to happen, but I know that
Prince Paul is Prince Paul. I uh I
admire him. I think Prince Paul out of
all producers and all reality, he's the
he's the father of the hip-hop skit.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Seriously, his albums
are crazy. So, even though we did our
skits with Kung Fu Movies and and Wu
Tang is known for their skits,
Dr. Dre is known for his skits. Prince
Paul is the fault. Wow. Okay. Seriously,
he he
albums, those daylight albums, in my
lawn and all that. I I forgot that those
albums though, they just were they were
journeys within themselves. So anyway,
so he thought of bringing us together.
Now
far as it being gravediggers, that
wasn't what it's going to be. He don't
he don't know what we're going to
create. Okay. But at the end, but at
that time, I was in a very dark space,
right? So if you go back and check
hip-hop, I created the fangs. All right.
M. But the fangs came from a dream.
All right. When I was young, 9 10 years
old, [__] The vampires kidnapped me.
Okay. They threw me in a bag and they
carried me. The dude had a crazy dog
with him, too. His dog was silver.
Imagine a silver dog, right? And he was
vicious. Yo, with a vampire. With a
vampire. Yeah. I like the vampire women.
Uhhuh. You know what I mean? because
everybody like vampire women,
but but you know, and they threw me in
the they threw me to the women.
And then when I became a vampire, I had
metal teeth.
And so, so now I'm doing this. I'm like,
I got it. I want to bring that [__] to
reality. You know what I mean? And so I
told the jewel to make the fangs. We
going grave diggers. We going resurrect
her. So me, Paul, um, Fukuan and Poetic,
you know, we we brainstormed on it and
we thought about what it's going to be
and we said, "Yo, the gravediggers and
but the gravediggers had another
context. It was like, why be a
gravedigger?" Well, according to
according to um, Malcolm X
um, he said our people are mentally
dead.
So if our people are mentally dead, that
means we got to dig them back up and
bring them to life. So that's why you
see the pick, the sickle, and the
shovel. The sickle cuts the grass. The
pick breaks the wood, and the shovel
digs them up. You got the grim reaper,
the gatekeeper, the undertaker, and me.
I bring it back. I bring you back to
life. The resurrector brings it back to
life.
I was gonna say, just to reiterate, I
think what's dope is that it was
parallel to Wuang. It wasn't like uh
Prince Paul came in and said, "Oh,
because of Wuang, let's do that." It was
parallel. And it worked out beautifully.
It worked out beautifully. Yeah. It
looked like from the outside looking in,
it looked like Gravediggers came after
uh Wuang.
It was parallel. And even that second
album when we did Wu Tank Forever,
we had the whole uh studio complex uh
American Studio in California. Yeah.
Yeah. So we So no, we had we did both
albums at the same time. This album and
Wuang Forever is done at the exact same
time. Every I got everybody living at
the Oakquas in California. So we got 20
30 apartments in the Oakwoods,
gravediggers flying, entire Woo flying,
sons of man flying, and we just Killer
Priest flies in. We just in the studio
just making music, making music. And
then Wu Tank Forever becomes the album
and the Gravediggers become And to be
fair, Prince Paul was already a legend,
too. Super legend. And Fuan. Yeah. Yeah.
Ruan made that. Uh, and ain't nothing
like hip hop music. That's right.
So, we want you to know our show is
about giving people their flowers, where
they could smell them, their thoughts
where they could tell them. They they
they thinks where they can dink them and
they drinks while they can drink them.
Better than that. Yeah. And Snoop Snoop
said it's better than a Grammy cuz it
come from your people. Exactly. Is it
edible? No, no, no. I don't think so.
Right. Go play. Go play. So, I take this
and just hang that on my forever. That's
the point of them. Let me Let me just
say this real quick. And we're not done,
but I know we're not done. It's early.
It's early. We got another bottle to go.
Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. But I do want
to say this out loud. I'm You know, I'm
proud of you. Yes. Thank you. I mean,
proud of what you doing. See, hip-hop
gave us a voice. And for a moment we
thought that voice was limited to the
beat and to the rhymes. You're showing
improving and some other brother, but
you really kind of pioneered in a
certain way. Yes, that's right. That
that that that that voice and the
magnetism doesn't have to be with the
beat in the club. You know, just us just
hearing you talk, us hearing you talk to
us, us hearing you talk to the to the
audience. It's a magnetism what you
already had when you was doing your
songs, but now it's just and and for for
for us, you know, sitting back and
watching, it's like, wow, the God just
went and made footprints to a new path.
Yes. And many of many people doing it
and many people following my footsteps,
you know, bunk. Yeah. They call me
Clarence X, a [__] a
[__] podcast.
But let's talk about that. Let's talk
about that. Let's talk about that real
quick because um the other day uh well
um not the other day but like like you
know like last month you know going
through New York City and what I saw was
I don't want to say heartbreaking but it
was it was I don't want to say
disappointing neither. It was different
for me, right? Like going through a hood
that I don't know and hearing people say
saying, "Yo, what up, cuz? What up? What
up? What up, blood?" And I'm just like,
I never used to hear that before back in
the days. Yeah. You know what's crazy?
Even if a person came up to you
wanting war, you know what the first
word they used to say to you? Peace.
Peace. Like like you can actually use
the word peace in a negative way back
then, but peace. And you like, "Oh,
man." No, man. You know what I mean? But
when and and and I want you to answer
this.
When did the gods take the back seat and
negativity take the front seat? I don't
know if I have that answer. Right.
Right. Cuz I don't think
negative ever really takes the front
seat. I don't think You know what? I
worded that wrong. You're correct. So,
all right. So, yeah. And I Yeah. I don't
think God never takes the the backseat.
But I'll say this. You're saying like
when has that when was the presence of
that energy right
not present and now you got this other
energy present right like like for
instance not to be longwinded but let me
just say like when I used to go to
Harlem it was a thing I wanted to stop
at a law school of Mecca like like I
wanted I wanted to go get some incense I
wanted to go get some oils I wanted to
like I don't even see the instant man
out there no more like you know what I'm
saying so like I don't even know if I
lost school with Mecca is still there
like it's still there. Okay. Okay. It's
still there. Well, I would say this,
like I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, I think
look, a couple of things happened in New
York, you know, first and foremost, um I
think it was when Giuliani, he made
everything get off the streets. Remember
that? He made everybody go inside the
building and pay and pay rent. Right.
Right. Right. And and and so that took
away the street culture for a moment. Um
the gentrification of that probably
really put a big cuz you could you could
walk in New York and you could find rare
books like the ISIS paper you know what
I mean they came they came before
Columbus the final call you know what I
mean so now you can't find that you know
what I mean so but also
it's like the you know the the brothers
also went out too to the world right so
it's almost like it you know a lot of a
lot of brothers went you go to DC you go
to Minnesota, you go to different
places, you see that brothers have kind
of spread out, right? You know what I
mean? ATL.
But in our day, all that energy was
concentrated, right? You know what I
mean? And then the magnetism of it has
changed because of what magnetized the
people now. Mhm. People were more
magnetized by money. Mhm. Right. So the
mathematics teaches us about the 12
jewels. Mhm. Right. Knowledge, wisdom,
understanding, freedom, justice, and
equality. Food, clothing, and shelter.
love, peace, and happiness. But most
people right now their concerns is food,
clothing, and shelter. Mhm. The other
jewels almost irrelevant. Mhm. And then
for our community, the only way to get
food, clothing, and shelter is with
money. Mhm. Then the only way to get
money in our community is that which we
see is shining with money, which is our
artists, our ball players, you know what
I mean? The talent. like we don't know
that or we don't see the doctor
live next door to the ball player. We
don't know that, right? You know what I
mean? So, our image of what we think
that attracts us and could get us those
three major jewels is the the the artist
point of view and then the artist point
of view have changed. So, in our day
it's Rock Kim, it's KRS1, Big Daddy
Kane, right? Or it's Wu Tang, it's Nas,
right? M um you know I mean n you know
is that and then it becomes more and
more
um people that don't have this knowledge
of self right right and and yet they're
getting richer and richer so the young
mind is like yo why why would I like why
would I study Mhm. when all I could do
is do this and get it. Mhm. And so so
the so the magnetism have have have
changed. And then the brothers
themselves, it's almost like I think men
get scared to talk to young men.
Yeah. I'm one of them. Yeah. You know
what I mean? And I don't think that's
that's that's unhealthy for us. Yeah.
You know, I think and then you know like
look let me keep it raw for a moment.
You can you can censor me if you need
to. We don't need no we at that age
right in our power ciphers right when I
mean by power ciphers most yeah most of
us who are there right power is the
truth right it's a magnetic attraction
right he's 50 years old I just turned 50
congratulations can you remember that
thought can you remember that thought
he's 50 years old
so now as you as you cross that
threshold let me let me give you your
flowers too man
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, good. No, I'm
saying, you know, it's like, okay, so
everybody got podcast, everybody's
talking, but most of us are talking
about glory days, right? Uh, most of us
are talking about the darkness of it and
none of us ain't talking about the
light. There's nobody sitting there
like, "Yo, when I first read
the black man or when I first read
the circle 7, when I first read Malcolm
X, right, or or or or or any great
books, you know, James Allen as a man
thinker, right? You know what I mean?
The art of war, Sunzu, you know what I
mean? The Book of Changes, the Eching,
right? Nobody's talking that, right? We
we all trying to prove who's the most
gangster." Mhm. Right. So if we all
trying to prove who's the most gangster,
what are our children going to be trying
to do? Prove who the most gangster. So
and so, so, so that has to change. We
got to be Listen, bro.
Gangster.
Seriously.
Malcolm X. Mhm. Okay.
Walking
talking that talk at a time when you
couldn't talk it. Mhm. traveling,
pulling up to your city
to teach you how to be better and to and
to teach you the power of a black man
and to teach you the the the the
revelation that the system is actually
being plotted against you. Mhm. And the
system is like what you saying we you
know Dr. King
marching turn the other cheek hit with
fire holes and dogs. Mhm. Knowing they
were going to go into that. Yo, they
walked into it. They knew it. Yeah. So,
so that that part of us, and I ain't
just saying I don't want to make this a
It's not even a black thing. I'm just
saying an American thing. The American
Revolution itself, bro, was people
saying, "Yo, son, I can't pay taxation
without representation, son." You know
what they was? Let me just give you that
little little jewel. Imagine this, bro.
In the in the old America, if you made
some nice cotton shirts in America, you
had to ship them to London
and then London package them and ship
them back and sell them to you. If you
live next door to me in old America
before the revolution, you could live
next door and I could write you a letter
and and mail it to you. It will go to
London first.
Oh, because London had control over
Exactly. And then they bring it back,
son. Okay. When you say London, I'm
thinking London, but you say you mean
you mean England. England. Okay. Okay.
Okay. All right. But I'm thinking like
London [__] them little [__] Oh no my
man.
Okay, I get it. I get it. No, but think
about that, right? So, so, so people
were brave enough to revote against
that. It was to revote against taxation
without representation to revote against
tyranny.
You know what I mean? And so, tyranny
manifest itself in many forms and people
weren't fooled and diluted to accept it.
And so, then we go back to just not
going into hip-hop culture. It's like,
yo, of course it should be fun and it it
should be ruggedness, you know? I mean,
we came with ruggedness. We know what we
did, but but still it should be
substance, right? You know what I mean?
And until the substance come back,
you're going to definitely be dealing
with,
you know,
um the 85 mentality. And what I mean by
the 85 mentality, so the 85, they say
are people who are easily led in the
wrong direction. Mhm. And hard to be led
in the right direction. You know what I
mean? They are also poison animal
eaters. Mhm. It says people who don't
even know their true origin in the
world. Mhm. They don't know their own
power. Right. Think about, you know,
someone who this thing about a
community, you know, who gets up and
everybody got a dollar and they take it
out of the community,
you know, instead of keeping it in the
community, right, and rotating it and
recycling it, right? So, so, so those
times has changed, but I'm optimistic,
not pessimistic.
And knowledge is not uh what they call
it. Intelligence is always relevant. Cuz
people like, "Yo, you ain't relevant no
more." Listen, bro. Intelligence is
always relevant. Right. And and and
anybody who gets too far away from that,
all he's going to do is get up to a
certain height and he's going to distill
back. Right. Right. So water never rise
above 6 milesi from the earth's surface.
Right. because
it can't get heavier than gravitation.
It says so when the water rises up and
you could p that to a person. He's
rising up and he's having these
attracting powers and he's getting up
and then he gets up and now all of a
sudden boom he's going to come back down
as rain
or hell,
right? Or hopefully snow cuz at least
snow is light, pure and fluffy. You know
what I mean? You know what I mean? But
but this is same thing in the
personality of the people. The same
thing in the celebrity. I watched some
of us
like like
I'll use myself as an example. It's like
when I became like the number one like
it was like number one, you know what I
mean? I call the complex,
you know what I mean? It's a high. It's
a drug. It's like I'm number one [__]
He can't tell me [__] Yo, he couldn't
tell me nothing. I'm serious. I was with
Quincy Jones and I even wasn't even
listening to him. Damn,
man. You was with Chrissy and I didn't
listen to him. I'm number one.
You know what I mean? Not knowing he
been number one. No, but even when Tyson
was number one, he was I'm the best in
the world. I'm I'm a Zodiac Cancer. So
maybe But no, but it's an ego thing that
kicks in. I know you felt it. Like
I you
[__] you. And so now all of a
sudden you you believe
you believe you it you're the chosen,
right? You know what I mean? And
everything you do is right.
But it ain't it ain't. I'm saying then
Allah, you know, he's merciful and if
and if you're meant for his grace, he'll
smack you with something. He threw Jonah
in the belly of the well and sit down
and think, homie. You know what I mean?
He had to sit there and meditate for a
moment. You know what I mean? and then
realize, oh, I better do what I'm
ordained to do, not do what my ego is
right leading me to. You know,
I talk about Jonah a lot to my buddies
and [__] right?
Because not Jonah Hill. No, not Jonah
Hill. Jonah and the [__] or Ununice been
saying. But check it out. Imagine this
though. Let's all imagine this and this
is not the funny part of drink champs,
right? Imagine
you on a boat partying with homies. M a
storm is coming and you kind of the new
guy there
and they go, "Yo, we we've been kind of
cool before this. This guy, it might be
him." And they take you and throw you
off the boat. That's what happened to
him. Wow. He goes in the water according
to the story, right? Whether it's myth
or magic, whatever. But let's just take
the story. He gets swallowed up by the
well.
Now imagine you inside a well. He closed
his mouth.
And two hours later, you still there
now? Two hours you in there like, "Oh
[__] what the fuck?" You ain't dead,
though. You're like, "This is my life."
Right? You ain't dead. But you, Trust
me, you thinking you going to be dead
any minute now, right? But now it's 4
hours.
Now it's 6 hours. You ain't dead. But
now it's 12 hours.
Now it's 24 hours. [__] you fell
asleep, [__]
Now you wake up, you still there. Now
you hungry.
Right now you got to smell it. You got
to feel the flesh. You got to It's dark
now.
12 hours later, you don't know what
time. You lost time. Now you done went
to sleep. All right. Now you don't know.
Right. Another 24. Still ain't getting
nowhere. Still ain't eating. You done
pissed. You don't took a [__] This [__]
is deep. You like this and but you
alive, right?
And then on that 72nd hour, the mercy
hits you and he opens up and spit you
[__] out, man. Jonah went right to his
job, boy. You know what I mean? This
life will humble you. Yeah. And that's a
blessing, you know, that happened to me
in a different way. You know what I
mean? When I thought I was the greatest
and at the top, you know what I mean?
something happened in my life. You know,
I always and I want to share this with
your with your audience. It's like my
mom's passed away in the year 2000 when
I was at the photo shoot for the cover
of the source. Oh, wow. And the cover
says, "Will the Wu Tang Empire rise
again and we had Supreme clientele?" So,
I was like, "Yeah, definitely. We about
to [__] these [__] up. This
album is is is it this a five micer?"
You know what I mean? Right. But yet,
Bama Lama, you see what I mean? So, and
what that do for you is like, okay, you
realize, okay, your calling is is is
more serious than the art, but be an
artist,
right? Be an artist. That's what I am.
But, but make sure you stay in tune. So,
I took the time from that point. I
visited many temples around the world.
You know what I mean? I went to Shaolin
Temple, Wuang Temple. Me and my wife
did. We went on church. We go to
churches, bro. All types of churches.
Went to Mecca. went to the mosque, went
to the blue mosque, Abu Dhabi, went to
pyramids of Egypt, all these spiritual
things, right? So that so me as an
artist when you do get something from
the Rizza, you're going to get that.
You're going to get the this element of
like, okay, it won't be just
um without cause, without blood. It it
will be peace God because God is a Greek
word that means wisdom, strength, and
beauty. And it's just three attributes
of Allah. It's not the whole 99. It's
just three attributes. But yet when we
look at each other, we should see that
wisdom. We should see that strength. We
should see that beauty. We should see
that. And you should try to radiate
that. You should try to, you know, if
you don't got if you got strength, gain
some wisdom. Don't be a strong, dumb
[__] You know what I mean? If
you got wisdom and strength, gain some
beauty. Don't be a strong, smart, funky
[__] You know what I mean? All
right. So, these things, you know, are
important. Bum bum. All right. God damn
it. Let's take a shot for that. God damn
it.
[Applause]
You want to tell me how quick slime
works? Let's do it. Uhoh.
So, this is our drinking game. All
right. We're going to give you two
choices.
Um, you pick one. We don't drink. If you
say both or neither. So, basically, you
don't really want to answer it. Want to
be politically correct. Then we all
drink it. Okay. But really the two the
two choices we give you is not about
dissing anybody really. We just want to
bring up conversations about the people
we're mentioning here. Oh, good. Cool.
Oh, she's going to the second bottle.
Yeah. See? Oh, this is done. You can
leave that. You going to leave that for
the brothers here? Okay. Cool.
Absolutely. Cool.
Damn. This is a long ass quick time of
slime, y'all. center right now. Y'all
going in
ready. I'm always
Tupac or DMX in which way? This is so
Okay, so everybody ask that question.
This is whatever criteria in your mind.
It could be you were closer with one
person, one person made better
spaghetti, one person was a better
rapper, better producer, whatever.
Whatever in your mind. Yeah. I I think
well I'm going to break the rules of
your game and I'm going to drink when I
drink and break the rules of the game.
But no problem. You mentioned Tupac and
DMX, right? You actually mentioned two
of the most spiritually in tune artists
of hip-hop. Prolific. Yeah. Right. I'm
serious. I mean, they were in tune
spiritually a little bit more. You know
what I mean? So Okay. It don't seem like
I just know they both had that had that
spiritual energy that just exuded out of
them. You know what I mean? So both.
Okay. Okay.
You played the game. You played the
game. We got to take the shot. I took I
took my shot. I got to take another one.
Finish it. I finished. I didn't want
Jamie's going to be running around. Go
ahead, Jamie. Okay. Yeah. Quickly. Uh
Nas or Jiza. In which way?
Just a way. No, they're both very
powerful brothers, right? But look,
for MCing, my favorite best MC is the
JZer. Okay, I don't think no MC could
beat the JZer. I think what JZer have
written for hip hop, no other MC could
pair. Even if you go to Rock Kim, who is
one of the greatest, right? And most
people he is the greatest. And Nas most
people is the greatest. Right? If I go
back and I look at what Jiza offered to
hip hop, right? And then look at what
Jiza spawned.
Right. Jiza spawned me.
Dirty Meth, Ray, Ghost. These are all
from Jiza is the enlightener. Wow. And
you go get all your top MC's. I'm saying
this with a with a little ego in my back
voice. I can't ego get it won't leave.
Nah, G.
What what what the Woo offer lyrically,
right, is actually no one has mastered
it yet. You know what I mean? Now
outside the Woo,
what Nas did is this. For me, Nas is to
me, this is my own only own analogy. I
call Nas a Bobby Fisher of MC's because
Bobby Fischer was the youngest MC to ma
youngest chess master to master. He
became a grandmaster at the youngest
age. There's a few that beat him over
the years, but he was the first one at
that age to be and and Nas was a master
at the age of 16, 17 where most of us
cuz you met us, we was already in our
20s, right? Right.
He was at the age of 17, 18 dope as
somebody that was 25, 30, right? That's
true. And he No, serious. He was a He's
a He's He's a prodigy child of MCN. You
know what I mean? But the J is already
there by the time we meet. He's already
writing ideas, you know, that's that's
one day, you know, I I challenge hip-hop
to do this.
Get every MC lyrics
and put them in a book
and then measure it that way and see
what you gain from it. Right? If some
make you smile or laugh or teach you
game, like you know some rappers they
give you the game, right? You know,
teach you how to hustle. You know what
I'm saying? The rules going to teach you
how to live in all reality. When you
start going through some of these
lyrics, bro, first of all, the quantum
science, the dude that built the
internet modem. You know what the
internet modem is? No, you don't have
Yeah, you do. You know what it is? What
the [__] let you go on? Oh, the [__]
the box.
Listen to 36. Okay. All right. Talk
about that then. I'm saying that hit his
brain
cells opened. So that's what we do. We
open up your brain cells. We cause that.
See, when you burn wood, you get fuel.
When you brain burn brain cells, you get
thoughts. You put the right kind of
wood, you get better fuel, less smoke.
You put the right type of thoughts and
energy, you get better ideas. You know
what I mean? So, so Judah said in one of
his lyrics, uh, something about via
satellite from the Woo mansion
looking at all
the
branches that came from his tree. And he
wasn't talking about just the Woo. He
was just talking about all the MC's that
the Woo inspired now. Right. Right.
Right. I'm going to say last thing about
the Jizzel because I'm so He's my
enlightener. Right. So what JZA is for
hip hop and he won't never say it cuz he
never comes out. He's pretty humble and
we need him on drink. He's the one last
member of Wu after you. Okay. He drinks.
Okay. Okay. I'm
But what he is for hip hop, he's
actually the bridge. So when hip-hop
started in South Bronx, Right. Right.
Some would say 1973. Right. Mhm. Right.
There's a project called Sound View
Projects. Yeah. Right.
He's His cousin lives there. Wow. He's
learning it from there. Wow. But he's
the he's the 13-year-old. He brought
hip-hop to me in 1976.
Wow. I was born in 77. Okay. He took me
to the Bronx,
to the jams. To hear it, right? But we
the kids though. I got my ass whipped
for staying out there. On the train. On
the train. Okay. Yo, check it out. Bus
from Charlotte from Brooklyn. Bus. Nope.
From Sha. Okay. Bus, boat, train. Jesus.
Seriously. Point. So, I got to talk
about that because because hip hop got
all his great godfathers and and
pillars, right? And and and it may sound
egotistical to say that, but Wuang
became a is a one of those pillars. And
that's because we have not the founding
forefathers. We have the first
generation from them who was amongst
them as a as as a spectator. So maybe
only then there was only a at best I
wouldn't even say 100 MC's. Right. You
said it gets diluted after that. Yeah.
Right. You know what I'm saying? When I
learned how to MC, there wasn't 500 of
us, right? You know what I'm saying,
right? But anyway. Yeah. Keep going.
Okay. So So he he picked Jiza. Yeah.
Okay. Bung bum. I don't got a drink
then. No, you don't have to love when I
pick. Okay. You don't have to drink.
Yeah. Cool. Fourth disciple or true
master
as producers. As whatever
these questions are made by these guys
just Yeah. Well, I'm no look. True
master.
Fourth is a disciple. True master is a
master. He was already a master before
became a disciple. Fourth is dope
though. But but true master uh Yeah. If
I was to pick them, measure, if I was to
measure them from my camp of who was the
who who who laid the illst. Yeah. True
mask, you know what I mean? He has he
has the proof of it is he has more songs
on the Wuang album then fourth, but
fourth was young. Mhm. Young man and he
um was special special young man and he
did his thing for us. Yeah.
DJ Mugs or Large Large Pro? Then which
way? I guess you could it could be
whatever, buddy. Stop it. Y start
putting ways on it though because some
people some people be like yo that's my
man like yo he made me ill macaroni one
day no both my man I mean mugs um first
of all lost professor once again we
don't talk enough about lost professor
right
drink champ he's another one his hair
neither he don't want to die man we're
showing you how to you can grow
gracefully exactly you look beautiful
bro
but let me talk about them I mean mugs
is mugs right Right. And um you know
brought so much to the culture. Soul
Assassin um you know but you know Lar
Professor
is the pioneer. Yes. Like so it's like
I'm sure that I'm sure that if Mugs
would probably say L. Exactly. I'm sure
that L professor inspired Mugs. Mugs
didn't inspire laws professor. That's a
good way to look at this [__] No, we
say it all the time. Who inspired who?
Yeah. Yeah. So, I would say that um but
I just want to say um we that that that
he needs we need more light on him
because he's like uh
he's like one of those rare Bentleys
like you know what I Like you know some
people got a Bentley like you see that
other Bentley that other carint
he's a vintage car bro he's large
professor you know I mean I don't and I
don't spend a lot of time I spend I
ain't even get five days in life with
him you know what I mean when I see him
I just automatically have a reverence
for him and probably one of the first
producer slash MC's as well. Yeah. Yeah.
And and witty with his lyrics. Yeah. No
he it wasn't like the MCing part was was
not as good as the producing. It was
like he was just as good. Yeah. So, it
sound like you picking large, bro. Yeah.
Okay. Ice. We don't got to drink. We can
make some noise.
All right. So, this is a two-part
question. This is a two-part question.
All right. Is the question is ill Madic
ready to die? Right. Right. Okay. You
follow me? Right. But I also want you to
address this lifetime rumor that there
was a rumor that Meth got on the record
with Big and that you did not want that
to happen. You did not want. So, so
first first omatic or ready to die
first? I'm going omatic. Okay. All
right. Boom. All right. So, we got that
out the way. Sets up his answer for the
next.
So, let's talk this rumor. You heard
this rumor before. You heard it before.
Okay. No. No. I didn't want woo ramen on
nobody beats. I love
you. Straight up. Wait. Wait. So, was it
feature or was it the beats? It was just
it was just like it was our time and it
was just like I didn't want nobody else
sharing in that in that moment. You know
what I mean? But I will give super but
Tracy Waples first of all spoke ANR just
a another unsung hero of hip hop
probably right um you know she she
pitched that idea you know what I mean
and and and um
yeah I said yes though she pitched the
what idea she pitched the idea of of of
Meth and Biggie doing a song together
right um and she was already smart like
she she's the one that came to I'm tell
what she did brohuh
Seriously, she came to Staten Island to
my apartment that had the records in the
box.
Okay. Wuang, the album was not out. Only
protect your neck is out. Wow. Okay. And
I played her the demos of Method Man uh
Dirty and I had a couple of demos that
of songs. She didn't pick meth from the
demo, huh? They wanted Yeah. Get the She
wanted meth and dirty. They wanted both
of them. Four bigs album. No, this No,
listen. Listen. This is the sign of
death jam. They not even sign the death
jam. Oh. So So she So I ended up signing
me the death jam through her. But at the
end of the day, her that that ANR pen
that signature took us to Russell
Simmons and all that. That was a big
moment for us. Wow. So, and her her her
um vibe and and
uh paper on the pulse of culture was was
undeniable, right? And so when she said
it, of course,
the big she said Biggie and meth. Of
course, I disagreed cuz I was very uh I
wanted nobody [__] with the woo was
just woo. But she but I trusted her. I
really did trust her. Right. And I trust
her her uh her whole
cultural post and she was right. So So
let me ask you, was that the first
feature Woo did outside of Woo? Was that
like like No, you know what? Meth was
meth was hopping featury. Okay. Meth was
the early feature.
You know what I mean? So he did other
records. No, come because No, because
meth is that type of MC. Right. Right.
Meth love Look, he love rappers still to
this day. I think he's gotten better.
I'm not tell I think he's gotten better.
He was he was dope then, but I feel like
he's he's really gotten better. He was
always dope, right? He's great. Yeah.
Right. Right. He's He's at a level and
nobody's talking about him in that
degree. Nobody's nobody [__] talk
about
what they mean they need to go take
those lifts and reex
meth is ridiculous with his wits and his
lyrical ability right now. Yo, it's like
it's almost uncanny. It's like he went
backwards in terms of like being the
youthful meth again. Like it's just in a
whole another chamber. He's free to just
[__] you up on the mic. But anyway, I'm
glad that they did it, right? Um and I'm
glad that I was proven wrong on that
one, right? Yeah. But but but I was
super duper Right. [__] that. Right. I
mean I mean in retrospect I believe you
were right, but I believe in that
situation you were supposed to let it go
because that Did you know? All right. By
the way, when Big is asking for this
feature, what level of big is he at? Is
he is is he already Biggie Smalls or
he's he's becoming that guy? He's
becoming that guy. He's becoming that
guy. But to be the first No, no. No.
Look, he had I mean, first of all, he
had party
joint. Yeah. Which is already I'm saying
it's he's bubbling and [__] But this is
his album, right? Right. And this is
going to be on his album. Right. But but
we're already
We're the man already. You know what I
mean? He's going to be the man, though.
He's about to drop the mega megaton
bomb, right? You know what I mean?
The perspective. I'm serious. But we
don't know that, right? Um, but we just
I was just really selfish about it.
Somebody told me to do that, too. What?
No. Somebody told me to be selfish. It
was Daddy from St. Sonic. He came to me
one day, ran into him. He said, "Yo,
God, y'all killing it. The war is just
and this everything." Said, "Yo, I'm
going tell you something. Don't let no
other producers produce your MC's. I
said, why? I said, don't worry about
that.
Just don't do it.
No, I understand both sides, too. Like
I'm like I'm like, you know what? He
might I think he's difficult with his
many MC's in Woo. Like that's too crazy.
Well, if you take a look at it, right?
Of course, over time it's in the
beginning. You did keep it. But in the
beginning, you did everything. Yo, we
did. Listen, who did seven platinum back
to back as a producer? Single.
Wuang goes platinum. Multiple platinums.
Meth man double plat.
Rayquan plat.
Dirt plat.
Jiza plat. Ghost plat.
Then another wool multiplat back to
back.
[Applause]
And you got to put it in perspective. It
wasn't back the norm yet. It was the
norm back. Then they come with Kappa. Go
gold. Yeah. Right. Go gold. Then come
back plaid again. Right. Not the So, so
keep and that was that was, you know,
from one leadership. So that was good,
right? And so anyway anyway, let me get
off me. No, no, no. But this is your
This is I'm just saying that's that's
that's that's that's I didn't when I
looked at it one day, I said, "Damn,
son." But yo, I never left the basement.
I'm serious. Cuz I want to get back to
that. But but before we leave this
question, I want to ask one more
question. Okay. You clear this record
cuz you had to clear this, right? You
had to clear me math, right? Boom. So
you clear this record. Then the very
next album
you guys drop,
it's Ghost and Ray actually going at Big
E
like like what was your mindset saying,
"Wait a minute. Did I did I make a
mistake or or or how was you feeling
period?" No. Well, well, first of all,
Big
is my man, right? You know what I mean?
Like, you know, rest in peace. Rest in
peace. You know, like like Big is my
man, rest in peace, and was my man. Like
he was happy for me, I was happy for
him. We seen each other not on. Mhm. We
seen each other on. Wow. Right. So
that's how New York was back then. You
know what I mean? Um when he got on
though, every time he see me, if he saw
me, he hit me with a bottle of
champagne. Right. Right. That's the kind
of man he was, which is which is a only
a prince does that, right? You know what
I mean? But as he becomes more and more
the man and all the MC's, my crew is a
crew of MC's. We we and my crew is is is
is vicious at this time, right? And now
he getting light and you know what I
mean? So it's like, yo, dudes ready to
eat that. You know what I mean? That's
the energy of MCing, right? That's why
every time you see a [__] want to pop
pass a bottle,
I'm like that's he blessing me. Don't
get mad cuz he passing me a bottle.
Right. Right. Right. Right. But that's
not [__] all that. Right. Cuz we was
very also at that one point like keep
the Abbott to ourselves.
It's another thing we was we was it was
it was like no it was us and nobody and
that was our energy and that was it took
a long time for us to get out of that
energy. You know what I mean? So, you
know, when they said it, it's like, yo,
they going I don't we can't censor what
they going what they feel cuz it had to
be something because if you think about
what they actually said, they was like
they [__] bit n [__] like this actually
had nothing to do with them.
If you think about you bit another man
[__] and hip hop had one rule. Yeah, we
had one rule. Nobody frame at that time
frame. Yes, it's true. Still rules. No,
no, the rules should still stand. should
still stand. But you know, biting is is
is like
it was just it was just the forbidden
fruit of hip-hop. You know what I mean?
And and and when you hip-hop and you
kind of you know one thing about hip-hop
nor that people don't remember. Mhm. You
couldn't just wear your kango kid. The
dude who had the kango had more than the
kango on. Right. You know what I mean?
He had he had respect, right? Mhm. You
know, I mean, he was able to walk
through that with that and get back, you
know, I mean, whether on a ferry, bus,
train, you know what I mean? So, we we
we those kids that we came from Staten
Island to Latin Quarters. Mhm. I mean,
Red Parrot. Mhm. You know what I mean?
Union Square. It's like we in there. You
know what I mean? And in you can't be in
there. It's not easy to be there and not
be from Brooklyn, right? You know what I
mean? Not be from Queens. Yeah. You know
what I mean? If you from Queens, it's
like back in those days, the rapper the
rapper Why you think rappers had
bodyguards?
They couldn't even come in like that.
So, hip-hop had this this this heavy
culture of of being strong, pure, and
they had a heavy culture of not biting.
now,
you know, but
you know, I guess that's how the
brothers felt like he bit and and we and
they interview Ray and Ghost right here.
They spoke up on it right here. What
they say about it? And no, they was like
they were like um that's how they felt
at the time, but they they regretted it,
you know, cuz they they said um or Ghost
actually cuz I believe we had Ray K talk
about it, but it's the first time we had
Ghost talk about it and Ghost was like,
you know, he he made peace with him like
he had got to see him. That's good. You
know what I mean? You know what I mean?
Oh, that's good. No, no, no. After the
piece came before that internally. Okay.
Right. The vine and power, right? They
already was like, "Nah, remember I I
produced on Big's album. It was Kiss
Good Night, right? Kiss." No. Yo, they
was they like they they was they they
they didn't appreciate it. We we we we
squashed that though. Right. Right.
Because it was like like like they was
like, "Yo, I I play that cubulation [__]
all the time." Right. Right. It didn't
it didn't. So it was like, but hip-hop
is that and I'm I'm glad that cuz cuz
you know we don't talk about [__] cuz
for us it's just keep moving. But I'm
glad that Ghost had a chance to redeem
that with him. Big was a special special
special dude. We all know that. But some
of us didn't get a chance to shake his
hand, laugh with him, you know what I
mean? Be up in the studio with him and
none of that. So they don't So they
wouldn't know what they don't know. He
he he was like a prince like, you know
what I mean? like a like like a very
rare, you know what I mean? Then when
they when you go, like you said, Ilmatic
and Ready to Die, know what I'm saying?
For me, lyrically, Ilmatic is a
masterpiece of of of lyrical talent.
Mhm. But of course, Ready to Die gave us
some of the best songs hip hop ever is
going to get though, right? And bring us
back to that skit era you was talking
about. Yeah. With Prince Paul. So
anyway, let's move on. Okay, let's go.
Um, how am I doing over here, mama?
Yeah. Stat slap your feet three times by
like zone out too deep and [__]
Staten Island or Brooklyn and which way?
Whichever way you want. I said both
because
both we drink, right? That's right. I'm
just trying to get you to drink. That's
all. Thank you. And and because you know
what? Let me just tell you something.
We're here to celebrate you tonight,
brother. I know you're a humble brother,
but listen, we're here to celebrate you.
You are arguably one of the smartest
people in hip hop. One of the people who
invented a lane that has never been
duplicated and will never be duplicated.
And I want you to know how much we
appreciate you here. So, we going to all
night we are here. We are wizards. You
know what I'm saying? We are all
godamn it. This Japanese whisies I mean
saki Japanese saki a dick. Look, look,
look, look. His eyes is getting cheeky
and [__] So, one thing he don't
remember this, you do remember this,
bro. You don't remember when we was in
France? Yes, you had that. I had this,
bro. What happened to it?
That [__] just disappeared.
We going to get iron. Hey yo. Yes. And
that night, I told you. Yes. I did you.
I kind of I kind of you tilted that
night. Yes, you did. You did. You did.
You did. I'm going to tilt it because
you know why? You know why? I'm going be
honest with you. It doesn't taste like
like like it creeps up on it. Don't
taste like anything which is dangerous.
Yeah, that's what's dangerous. That's
dangerous. That's dangerous. And you
drink it with the support. With the
support, which I think is equally as
dangerous. I like that. I like that's
that's a that's a nice beer. And I mean,
well, Japanese beer and and saki, they
just go great together. Yes. The
temperature of it. You got another
bottle. That's the last one. No, we got
one more. Good. Good.
And I'm going to take a
nice The temperature is getting right.
Okay. Okay. Starting to feel good.
So, all right. I'm going move on. Okay.
You said both, right? Yep. All right.
Cool. I'm going to keep it going. He He
went to the bathroom. Okay.
You said something about Hold on. Hot
saki. You said you only drink hot saki.
No, I used to only drink hot saki
because I thought it went with cold
beer. I thought that goes together. Wow.
I don't know. Well, hot saki is usually
bad saki. So So you make it hot just to
kind of like to get rid of it. You would
never heat this up. This is You know
what's crazy? I've never drank hot saki
with Japanese people. I only drink it
with my white friends. So So is that
bad? is no good man. You've been since
the army world. No, no, no, no. Has saki
is usually going to be a lower grade.
Oh, right. So, this here, right here, as
you'll see, right? This is a Jumai.
Okay. Right. So, Jumai is a special way
they make it. So, so that's like agave
like in tequila like there's different
brands. Yeah, exactly. It's like a noob.
Okay. Okay. And Blanco, right? So, you
know, this is not stuffed in the barrel.
Okay. But point being made is that you
would never heat this up. Okay. You know
what I mean? That would be like destroy
destroying it. But if you had some saki
like, you know, some Alasaki, okay, and
you just kind of go into the habachi
spot and they like yeah, they squeeze
that [__]
I mean, a [__]
[__] up. That's what I'm getting. Keep
that [__] out.
You know what? Yo, I ain't going to lie.
I swear to God, I thought I knew every
drink etiquette in the world. You just
[__] me up just now because that's
what what who I spoke to today, Diego. I
I used to always drink hot sauce. So, I
didn't know I didn't know that. That's
That's the cheap [__] Cuz if you ask
them to heat this up, they ain't going
to heat it up for you. They going to be
like, "No, no, no." I mean, yeah. or
they gonna charge you the price of what
it cost, right? Heat it up and you're
gonna lose what you pay for, right?
Because I used to um we uh drink
Japanese whiskey, right? And uh jam uh
Yamazaki 18. You order Yamazaki 18 and
you order it with ice, they won't give
it to you, right? They be like, "No."
Right? Like you order a ice, right? Not
that
not that. So maybe you put one drop of
water in it, though. Just water. So some
some people the ice is only to open up
the open up the Yeah. Open up the the
flavor of it, right? About the whiskey.
Yeah. But most Have you ever you ever
went to a whiskey convention? No. Yo,
dude. Everybody to a tasting where they
taught us that in a tast. Yeah.
Everybody at the convention they have a
eye dropper. Okay. And they go they just
put one drop of water first and then cuz
it opens it up. Remember this [__] has
been distilled and it's inside of a
barrel.
A little bit of hydrogen, oxygen loosens
those atoms up. You know what I mean?
And so that's why you get the big solid
rock that don't melt. That's the reason
for the rock. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
All right. Cool. I haven't drank it.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Good. I I I threw a
curveball after um after what? Ready to
die. Um All right. Buck Wild or Diamond
D. In which way? You whatever way you
want. Whichever way you want. So, I
don't know those brothers, right?
Personally, I've met them, but I can't
say I know them, right? Okay. But I
would say that Diamond D once again just
offered so much to the culture. He he he
he brought in another chamber that that
was that was needed, you know. I mean,
are they both in the DRT? Yep. I believe
they're both in DRTC.
But it's like and and and it's just when
Diamond had like he he's like the
gristle Mhm. on the chicken bone. He's
another rapper producer that did a great
saying. Had the rhymes, had the flow.
It's like it's like what's up with my
other dudes that we don't talk about
enough. We don't talk about foul monk or
not. Oh,
shut the [__] up. Organized noise.
Organized noise. Organized noise.
Organized confusion. Organized noise.
Rest in peace. Rest in love. Yeah. Rico
in Wade in Wade. But yeah, so I'm going
to go Diamond D on that and let them
fight that out. Okay.
rapping or producing? I skipped that. So
yeah, just just in just in the chambers
like like like the the full the full
package. No. What you like better,
rapping or producer? Oh, me? Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, what you mean?
I mean, this this is a question.
[Music]
Both. Both. Okay. Take a shot there. No,
I'm not I'm not I'm not bullshitting.
This gets better as you keep going. Wait
until you stand up. Hey yo, listen.
That's why I'm never trying to take a
beat. You don't know. I be trying to
hold my feet the whole time. Once you
stand up, I know it's a different life.
Release yourself. Yeah. Yeah.
Hey yo, Nory. So, check this out. Right.
So, a lot of people know me for my
beats. And a lot of the look, a lot of
the industry,
you know, was is inspired by my beats in
all reality, right? And all raises do
that. I'm able to add inspiration to
anything. But they overlook me as an MC.
You know what I mean? Right. And it's my
lyrics.
If they would have pay more attention to
my lyrics, the kids would be better,
right? The kids wouldn't be on the route
they're on. I don't write for myself.
Yo, I write
scriptures
so that you could hear the chill with
the feedback. We don't need that, right?
It's 10:00. Where's your seat at?
See that? Right. Cuz women running
around chasing [__] But where's your
kids at, baby? Feeling mad at hostel,
wearing arrow posture. That was a style
back then. Flowing like Christ when I
speak the gospel. I'm bringing gospel,
bro. You know what I mean? That's so
it's like my my my mission was to
instill inspiration.
Like I wanted to be I'm I'm lyrically.
I'm serious. You go back and listen to
my lyrics, bro, and take time. Fusion of
the five elements. The search for the
higher intelligence. Women walk around
celibate living the relevant. The most
benevolent king communicate through your
dreams. Mental pictures have been
painted. But Allah is heard and seen
everywhere in your surrounding
atmosphere, thermosphere, stratosphere,
traposphere. Can you imagine? From one
single idea, everything appeared here.
So understanding will make the truth
crystal clear. We got innocent black
immigrants
locked in housing tenementss.
85 dependent welfare recipients.
My neighborhood has been stamped like a
concentration camp. But at night time I
would walk through my third eye was
bright as a street lamp. Electric
probes, right? Electric probes, robotic
strobes taking telescopic pictures of
the globe. Babies being born now with
microchips stuffed inside their
earlobes, examinated, vaccinated, lies
fabricated, food and drug administration
testing poison and prison population.
My occupation is to stop the
inauguration of Satan. They thought it
was Ronald Reagan.
That's why I come to slay men like
Bartholomew cuz every particle of some
physical articles is diabolical down to
the last molecule.
But anyway, they don't pay attention.
[Applause]
You can't follow that. But anyway, I'm
serious though. It's like I was doing
that because let's take a shot to that.
Let's take a shot. Cheers.
Jamie, you do the workout.
Anyway, you said producer MCN. Yes.
That's why I said both. I just I love I
love the Okay. On by nature. Which way?
You got You're gonna probably That's
gonna probably be Now I'm getting clown
though. D I keep saying which way, but
my I can't help but say which way. Yeah,
no problem. Tre is my man, man. Trees, I
think, is under I don't want to say
underrated, but I think he deserves to
be higher in everybody's top list of
MC's. You know what? I feel like they're
about Sticky as well. Yeah, sticky as
well. Yeah, sticky as well. They both
inspired
culture, flows, and and identity. For a
lot of rappers, a lot of their stuff is
embedded in a lot of MC's.
Like it's like it's their cheat code
that they won't admit, right? You know
what I mean? But for me, thank you.
Stretch is is it's both are special
because I'm going say both. Okay. And
I'll tell you why. I already took the
shot, but I already took that shot. That
was that was the last shot. Trust me. My
bad. Wait till you get up. Yo, both. Yo,
they both like New York is such a
special place. And shout out New Jersey
as well and Philadelphia and Long Island
and Long Well, New York Long Island is
that's us. We together. Somebody tried
to say Buffalo wasn't New York. Yo, no.
Buffalo's New York.
We're not going for that. You know what
I'm saying? New York. That's New York,
bro. But for T and and Vinnie and them,
remember I was on Tommy Boy. That's
right. I was a Tommy boy, too. And we
wasn't Nobody made it yet, right? So
they sending us out together to uh to
the radio with Naughty by Nation. Yeah.
Chris Rocke and Naughty by Nation.
That's right. Okay. Be like this. They
make it though. Right. Right. You got to
make it. I'm serious. I remember going
to see him at the Apollo after they made
it. And I ain't seen him in like about
five 6 months. You know, I'm still
trying this and [__] but you know, it's
my man. You know, they like, "Oh [__]
let me in." He's my brother. Tre is like
that type of guy. He's a special guy.
Yeah. He's one of the once again another
special entity. Um but but I I seen him
he he came off stage sweaty, took his
shirt off, muscles, everything. He was
like bung bong and [__] And I was like,
"Holy [__] my man. My dude, we was we
was we was in the limo together like
this falling out like just going on the
radio just doing freestyles hoping
and now he pl he was platinum. Right.
[__] going crazy. You know my song is
about [__] They not going crazy like
that.
You know what I'm saying? And but but to
the brotherhood was always like that.
You know what I mean? And when Woo open
our first store that another right.
Yeah. Okay. He came through basically
basically almost bought it out. Wow. You
know what I mean? That's how much. But
then you go back to Sticky. It's like
Sticky and Onyx and [__] Fra. That's
my those are my party homies. We we the
we the dudes in the party before
nobody's on. We the real dudes in the
party. You know what I mean? It's like
whatever. You know what I mean? If if
it's a Vic, if it's something going
down, it's we we we were the real me.
Dirty sticky me, Fra. If you if you was
in the party, industry party, those are
the real [__] that how they got
in. We don't know.
Is it dangerous now in this party? a
little more dangerous. Yes. You know
what I mean? So Sticky and Mark, they
was like, when they got on too, it was
like I was like, "Oh [__] all the real
[__] is getting on now." Like some of
the real people that wasn't just like uh
just kind of like the streets was
getting in, right? Stretches are an
example of the streets getting in.
Sticky is an example of the streets
getting in. Woo is the entire community.
You know what I mean? Straight up
though. Anyway, what you got? Um, KS1 or
rock
in your way. Okay. I'm about say which
way.
Well, Jamie,
look, that's that's that's even though
it sounds hard, right?
Rock him. Okay. Right. They both gave us
so much. You know what I mean? Yeah. And
KS1,
you know, he's the type of dude nobody
ever wanted to get on after KRS1. Yeah.
You ever did a show
with KS1? Yeah. You better go first. And
he give a speech in between [__] and
everyone shuts up and listens like, "Yo,
he did one show. Yo, he dropped backto
back bangers. I'm talking about 10, 12,
13 back to back bangers."
and then was like, "Okay, that was the
mic check."
Then went into the [__] right? That's
how many album freestyle. That's how
many bangers he got, right? Cuz he made
albums that was full of bangers.
Listen to my 9 mm go. Right. So in that
capacity, you're going to not find
really not nobody that could do that.
But when you when you mentioned it to
me, my mind went to the argument of
those MC's who was the best. And what
Rockim wrote in his two albums,
you know what I mean? And didn't curse.
Exactly. For the most part. For the most
part. For the most part. Yeah. What he
wrote, bro? No MC of that generation
compete compared to that. Know what I'm
saying? They could try and argue it if
you want, but if you go, what do you say
when the earth get further and further?
He said, "Follow me." Right? So, you
thought you was first, but let's travel
at a magnificent speed around the
universe. You thought you was first, but
follow me and let's travel at a
magnificent speed around the universe.
And what would you say when the Earth
get further and further away and the
planet seems small like balls of clay
and you stray into the Milky Way?
World's out of sight. As far as your eye
can see, not even a satellite. But then
suddenly you see a star. You better
follow it cuz it's the a
he took you
from the earth back to triple darkness
and then appeared for you. So his
lyrical content and abilities were just
now incredible. Also even caris one gave
us a lot of things you know like what's
beef right or even when he talked about
you know your diet the teacher my
philosophy Jimmy
great great great but I'm just saying
the concentration
see what makes a dope MC and this is
really way you could y'all could take it
or throw it in the garbage some MC's are
a container of juice you ever get that
good apple juice it's like that whole
[__] martelli's apple juice like that
[__] is Marelli is good. Marelli
is good in your
[__] is good. Yeah. But some MC's Mhm.
it's the concentrated apple juice. You
got to add water to this [__] You know
what I mean? Rock him, right? You got to
add water. All right. Okay.
That Okay. Now, this one I I already All
right. Cuz I bet I bet you would be on
time and I lost that bet. But I bet on
this this question, too. Hold on. That's
a good bet. But no, I bet on you. I was
on time. Now, we thought as much as we
were talking, you were definitely on
time. We We were here 2 hours early just
to make sure cuz we knew you was going
to be on time. I bet on you. We We do
this with every artist. Like, we bet. We
bet. And I got I got here at 4:30. I
[__] up. I told 4:00.
I got We only said cuz we told everybody
he's going to be on time, guys.
talking. But but but hold on this
question, but I'm not I'm not going to
lead the witness.
Analog or digital? You're asking Bobby
digital that. Well, if you would have
asked me a few years ago, I would have I
would have chose, but this time I got to
say both.
I lost again. I'm not bad. I lost. I
thought you would have picked digital. I
know if you ask some years ago, the
reason why I would have said digital a
few years ago, well, first of all,
digital is where we at, right? But you
can still use this. There's things that
you can still use analog. There's
plugins that make it analog. But let me
tell you about why I'm saying analog,
bro. Okay, cuz now we in the AI world.
It's a whole different world now. Okay.
So, now that we in the AI world, you're
going to wish somebody just played the
guitar for you, right? You're going to
wish that the resonance of that. You're
going to want to wish that the
that real physical sound is real. Watch
when you get a porter a porter shorty.
You know what a porter shorty is. The
robot. Yeah. Watch when you get a porter
shorty. Porter shorty. Yeah. I hope you
hope we don't need them. We got wives.
But some dudes
when you
people going to get porter shorty. Oh,
they definitely getting that. They mean
and it's going to it's going to it's
going to
one for sure about it.
The porter. Yeah, the porter. The porter
shorty, right? When you do it, she going
to click her eyes and record it for you
and then hit it and then she going to
play it back.
I don't even know what the [__] just
happened. I don't know where we went.
Anyway, right. That's the when you play
when you play when you got the robot
shorty recording you as you doing. She
going to be filming you as you doing it.
But you you want her to film you. You
want her to film. Listen, bro. It's AI.
It's happening on his own. They got to
take his data. It needs data. Wow. I
seen just a side note, sidebar. I seen
this billionaire on it was something I
saw online but he said the f no the
future of investing he wants to invest
in sports because AI is going to take
over everything and everything's going
to be so digital that the physical
people that actually do sports is going
to be a a commodity running action yeah
so he's investing all his money this is
a guy that invested in tech supposedly
now he's going to invest in sports
physical he's going analog he's going
analog that's what he's
So he said both. Okay. Okay. I like Hold
on. I got to interrupt you and [__] I
like that. Listen. You notice he taking
all these shots? Huh? You hitting these
you going back to back on the bone. Oh
yeah. Okay. Okay. I got No. This is all
day. No, no, no. It's It's a good thing.
I'm I'm I'm a little I'm impressed. He
got the Louis Let me see that, bro.
I'm not going to take one. You can take
one.
Yeah. But I'm going to smoke it later.
Yeah. Okay. Good.
[Applause]
Hold that for later.
Me and my wife going to sit with that
dude.
But yo, this you How much time? Yo, you
know we got another hour, right? Yeah.
Yeah. No, no, no. Oh, I'm happy. Listen,
let me make it all the way through. Yes.
Yes. Let me just tell you something,
bro. I'm going to be honest. And if we
don't, it's part of the show, too. Yeah,
but listen, but let let me just tell you
something.
And you know,
we've had other people on this show. We
had other legends, but we have never had
the Abbot on this show. And you know
what? I am so happy. I'm so honored. And
I we mother
he asked me if I'm But what I'm trying
to say is, man, this is this is a
blessing, man. So, in case I didn't say
it earlier or we didn't say it earlier,
I just want to say to you and your
beautiful wife, thank you, man. You know
what I'm saying? Because I know I know
you ain't got this, you know, you know,
at the end of the day, like, you know, I
I you know, I I live this life. So, I
understand like and and our culture,
what we trying to do is, you know, so
many people say that if you have 10
years in this game, like you washed up
and so many other and so many other
cultures, I never even heard that word
be spoke of washed up or your time is
up. Like what the [__] is that does that
mean other than boxing and sports and
[__] like that? But what other genre of
music? These [__] Molly Crew
and them [__] they tore [__] them
[__] is 900. Like
I just saw the Grateful Dead. Yeah. In
Vegas two weeks ago. Come on. I I didn't
even know those people were still alive.
Yeah. I love them. I think Bob Wears 82
and they're still killing it. Killing
it. Beautiful show. So why can't hip
hop? Why Why we can't grow with that?
Why we can't? And you know what's crazy
about I'm sorry to make it all make
sense, but let me make it make make it
all make sense. That was the illst thing
about me watching you and Nas you guys
and Nas and Paris together was I was
looking I was like look at the audience
and the [__] was packed. It was sold
out. But I'm looking and there was some
there was there was a lot of youngans in
there that you thought were with their
parents but then I was paused. I was
watching their mouths and they knew the
words and I'm like, "Oh no, they have
from their parents." I was like I was
bugging. I was reverberated. Like you
know, you know, at first at first sight
you looking you're like, "All right,
cool." But then you look and you're
like, "Wait a minute. These are good
parents. These are parents who let who
let their kids listen to the right
music." And the kids would actually It's
like Bob Marley. It just so beautiful.
You know, you know what's so crazy? One
thing I did see in hip-hop is a
beautiful thing. I was in Australia
and the thing in Australia that bugged
me out is that the audience was actually
40% all young. Wow. Yeah. I'm talking
about like it was weird a little bit
too. I had to um I had to like lecture
them. I got back to the hotel. It was
like 20 18year-old. Hold on. Chill,
girls.
This these are we deny this is not
this not a boy band. This is these are
grown men here. You guys go home. Take a
take a picture and go home. That's what
I I had to tell I had to tell people get
them home. I had to get girls out of
vans. Right. Right. But but the point
I'm making is that the the the
attraction of our culture, the
attraction of the music is timeless. And
that's what it's supposed to be. That's
beautiful. It's beautiful. And and and
what we got to do and hopefully if we
can right is is is
not be shy or or brave enough to
circulate back around the globe and
touch the people because the thing
that'll happen is it a it won't be
because uh the guy said 10 year wash up
the the guy who accepts that
makes himself wash up, right? He won't
come outside. He won't show up because
he don't, you know. Yeah. He hasn't
preserved himself. He don't feel the
chi. You know what I mean? There was
recently some few dudes as they they
don't want to do videos no more, right?
Cuz cuz of the physical appearance like
n yo g listen. You're still appreciate.
You remember le you know Lee Scratch
Prairie? Anybody know who that is? Yo,
you see Lee Scratch Prairie? Yo, he was
he I went to a Jamaican festival. Oh
[__] That's why he know. Hey yo. Hey
yo, he looked like a prophet, right? He
was super super grayed out. Just you
know what? You wanted to see him, right?
You wanted to touch that. You was like,
"Yo, hold on. I want that. That's real,
right?" But you know, so so I was just
saying that that the culture will
continue to attract younger generations.
The industry itself thought they could
write it off, but they thought it was a
fad. It's not a fad. It's 50 years. It's
50 years old. You know what I mean? And
it's international. And it's
international. It's going to continue.
And and one thing I've said on this show
a bunch of times is it's it's the number
it should be considered and it is the
number one cultural export of the United
States to the world. And and we are not
really taking advantage of that. The
culture didn't take advantage of it,
right? We didn't. And what happens is
each region now is saying, "All right,
well, we got our own." Cuz I've traveled
and they and the hip-hop heads in these
countries have said, "You guys lost your
way hip-hop wise. You guys are corporate
and you lost it." So they're creating
their own vibe within themselves, which
which is good. Yeah. But we should pay
attention and and and keep in touch cuz
it comes from here, right? Well, they
will come back here to there's an artist
called um I did a a album with an
artist, her name is A Witch out of
Okinawa, and she kind of Yeah. Okinawa,
Japan. Got a song featuring uh ASAP
Ferg. Oh, wow. He joined it. Who else
joined it? Um Okano, that's where Mr.
Yagi from Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like that.
For real. For real. Hold on. One of the
biggest. Come on. Take a shot. Take a
shot.
The home saki. Yo. Yo. In Okinawa,
right? Check this out. I love Okinawa.
They got a saki. Okay. Check this out.
So they had a snake that was killing all
the people. Oh [__] They put the snake
in. Yeah. Snake was poisonous, killing
all the people. They went and captured
them. All the snakes. And they put them
in in saki bottles and you drank it.
They fermented the snake. Yeah. And it's
an aphrodesiac. I believe that. That's
You drank it and you be like, "Yo, what
up, baby?"
So anyway,
Okinawa. Okay, let's let's get out of
Okinawa. Let's come back. Where we at?
Um, we we got we slow time with slime.
Yeah. A [__] Primo or Pock? No, you
skipped a million. I know. That's why we
got to do it. No, don't skip them. No,
don't skip them. We can edit this [__]
We can go We can go back. We can go
back. Yeah, you can edit. You can edit
this [__] Yeah. But Primo or Pete Rock
in which
in the producer way. That's a deep
even though P rock do rhyme too. That's
deep. No, that's that's deep. Primo. No.
People rock. Pock. No rock. That's
That's deep. That's a deep one. Mhm. I
got to say both. Okay. I'm in. I'm in on
that. Both.
This tastes really better. It's getting
better and better. I ain't going to lie.
Is it Is it different? Is it a different
one? But I'm saying is it like what's
the mixture of this one? Yeah. So So
this one here is also I like this one
the best. It's still a Jumai. But so not
to go there. This this particular brand
makes about five levels of saki.
All premium.
She's getting more. Yeah. She's moving
more and more premium. She didn't even
know that. Did you know that? Oh yeah.
She's moving up and up. Is that the last
bottle? No, we got several more. There
the ceramic. No, we don't get the
ceramic. It's the only one we could
find. No, no, no. There's the ceramic.
Yeah, the ceramic. So, that's the that's
We have it. Yeah, someone brought it.
Yeah, we we moving up the ladder here.
Okay. Okay, let's go. I'm in. I'm in.
I'm in. Start passing. I think other
people.
Okay. So, let me let me speak on those
two brothers. You gonna chalk this up
anyway. So, what?
So P rock you know he pioneered so much
for us in hip-hop
always you know I love his horn chops
was very interesting was uh he was an MC
pe rock and semis his his his his ideas
you know and then Premiere Premiere
actually
created a formula
Premiere made formula
that works every time.
Now, if you pay attention to that, a lot
of producers wasn't able to do that. He
created his own formula. You check Pete
Rock, you check Rizzle, you check Dre.
None of us don't have a concise formula.
I'm trying to figure out where you're
going with this. Like, he's consistent
in his formulas. What you're saying his
formula? His form. Yeah. You don't mean
a sound. Not a sound. I mean it is kind
of it's kind of mean that it's not his
sound cuz his sound was inspired by all
you his sound changes as we change
right. Okay. Okay. But it feels like his
drum pattern is his formula. Yeah. I'm
trying to figure out what you mean.
Okay. His formula. Okay. You're saying
it's a ch
like he has a for saying he has a
formula
that you know is premiere. Well yeah
it's a signature sound for sure. Yeah.
But not just the sound, bro. If if if he
don't scratch in the hook, right, you
can still know it's Premiere. It No, it
ain't Premiere. Oh, you're not going to
find his joint without a scratching it
that he doesn't incorporate his DJ,
his his his his he also keeps I think he
keeps one of his old machines still,
right? Right. He keeps keeps his old
equipment and he uses that in his
formula. So every time you play one of
his tracks, right, it it you go, "Okay,
that's you could tell it's Premiere."
Yeah. Right. Right. You can tell. Oh,
premier beat. Yeah. Right. But P Rock,
you got You might go, "Oh, Pock did
that."
You can tell. No. Okay. Did you know
Pock when he did um Okay.
Wait, who did Above the Clouds?
That was That's Premier. That's No. No.
That's P. No, that's premier
that's
gangster. The other one they did was the
one when it was the with the racing
[__] Start your engines. We expect the
day. Yeah. That's Pete Rock, right? But
wasn't you on that?
Point I'm making is that Pete Rock Pete
Rock me digging up that high like No,
but let me say this.
Premier has made a formula, right? P
rock is a master, but similar to me in a
way we've we've played in multiple
chambers,
you know what I mean? So, so Cuban Link,
even though it's Rizza, it's nothing
like Old Dirty's album. If you really
look at it,
the sonic quality could be similar,
but Dirty album is full of bass.
Cuban links is strings.
It's It's totally a different chamber.
Liquid sports is totally different from
Cub. You know what's crazy? Every time
he says the noises, I know exactly what
he's talking about.
So, so who are you comparing yourself
more to? It sounds like you're No, I'm
not comparing. No, I'm not coming. I
said one of those P and
you pick. No, I said both because they
both are pillars. But I want us I want
us to identify
the difference. It's like nobody's
production quality level
matches Dr. Dre. Mhm. Quality level.
Quality level. Of course. If you put on
Michael Jackson
and you put on Dr. Dre, you don't got to
touch the knob.
Okay. His He made records from the
beginning, right? That's at the sonic
quality of all the records ever made in
history at the highest level. Right.
That's ill. You on 36 after Dre, you got
to turn my [__] up. You're going to get
a different experience though. You're
going to hear some [__] that What the
[__] What? What the [__] was that?
You know what I mean? By turning it up.
But you got to turn it up, [__]
But Dre, you could just Right. Okay.
Now, with with with with Premiere, he's
also sonically there cuz he's pushing
the drums up front, right? He could, but
it still won't match Dre, right? It'll
be high. It'd be louder than me, right?
Similar to Pete, but nobody's getting
into Dre's V. And Dre's a perfectionist
in that
VU though. That [__] that was moving
like that that was on your SSL. He
mastered that. Yes. Dre's like a
scientist in that. My [__] on the SSL to
be honest.
It's like this. I pushed it all the way.
They was like, "Yo, you can't do that."
I'm like, "Why not?" Right. When you
master this [__] [__] they going to
go
and now your [__] is going to sound the
way it's going to sound. Right. I don't
care. You know what I mean? But anyway,
so but but did you do that on purpose?
For me, a lot of my [__] I did because
that was the whole allure of For me, a
lot of my [__] I did was purposely let
me say one thing that that's weird about
me and you this is part of your
question. So for me, right, if you take
one of my tracks in the studio and you
came to the board,
if you move the fader down, the beat
falls apart.
It only works because of the pulse of
what I'm do of of the level that I set
everything at. It's only working because
of the pulse of what I'm control. I'm
controlling the pulse.
It's not everything is not in key and
everything is not in rhythm. But what's
the dominating pulse makes it make
sense. Even you go to that same
Knowledge Guard song on Rayquin's album.
No, it's God. It doesn't if you move
something, it's like you lost it, Bobby.
You dropped it. That happens. People,
the engineers,
you [__] up. I'm like, no, you [__]
Why you do that? Well, you [__] up,
bro. That's not what's happening here.
You're thinking of of the science of it.
I'm working off a post. I was working
off a post. So, a post means I could go
like
But if I put a drum beat pushing that
pulse, it's going to change it. It's
going to change that to a rhythm. But
then if I put a bang,
what the [__] is that? But if I put it
low right here and move it, pan it to
the left, it's going to
it's going to muff it. It's going to
make it's like, what the [__] is going
on?
And then when the inner C get on it, you
don't even hear nothing because now you
trapped in his flow, right? A good a
good song like that is with the blood
clot by method. Man, you have a little
chance to go back and check that. But
anyways, I'll [__] with you now, right?
I think we got to go that kind of stuff.
All right, so hold on, hold on, hold on.
All right. All right, so next question.
Only built for Cuban links or Iron Man?
Like, where did this go, bro? Only Built
for Cuma Links. That was easy. That was
easy. Only Built for Cuma Links is the
foundation of Iron Man. Okay. Okay. Iron
Man is good, right? But Iron Man falls
short.
Yeah, we fall short, but I'm going to
deny it because what happened in Iron
Man is that we have the flood in the
middle of the album. So after Cuban
links liquid sports we start Iron Man
and the second flood happens.
This flood though it doesn't destroy
floppy disc like the one got [__] up
and now and now the equipment is [__]
I got a 2in machine in my crib. Oh real
flood. Yeah I'm think I'm a sling you
told me real flood I've been through two
floods. Okay. Once I thought I could
have the water biblical
once the flood wasn't coming from under.
I moved to a spot. It came from over.
Wow. Yes. That's just my own karma that
I had to fix. I had to get a good woman
which I have now.
1 2 3.
I have a good woman now. So I don't
Let's take a shot for a good woman. Good
woman.
So Iron Man was finished in Mystic
Studios when you probably said we
better. So we had to leave our own
studio and then go to Mystic. And now
see in my own studio, every compressor
was already set. When Ghost came in,
he sound like Ghost every time because I
set the settings, right? Every MC had
their own compressor, their own
settings. Now I'm in a somebody else
studio. Uh, it ain't the same. And when
I leave there tomorrow or don't come for
2 days, he done changed it again. Okay.
Cuz somebody else used
so liquid swirl and Cuban links, which
people consider the epitome of my
creation,
nothing changed. Mhm. It was consistent.
It was consistent. And so when you hear
them, it it sounds like him. One thing a
lot of artists and producers don't
realize
is that,
and I say this with all due respect, cuz
we're not talking about nobody else, of
course. But, okay. So, Snoop goes to No
Limit. That album don't sound like Dr.
Dre. No. No. You see what I'm saying?
So, the studio you use, it's just like
DN was it DMD and D. DN D, man. Once
some dudes didn't go there no more.
Yeah.
Damn. You know what I mean? Premiere. He
was the one that really made D and D
sound good. Yeah. But once once people
started going there, they all got good.
I think like maybe but once they stopped
going there, it's like, oh, there's no
DN D there. Sometimes the studio itself
is is part of the vibe, right? And so
on. So you say accumulation. So Iron
Man, Iron Man was finished in Mystic,
right? And to me, we we forced our hand
on we we compromised. So anyway, yo,
that's this is these a great answer for
me as a fan. Like yeah,
I'm I'm glad that the fans get to hear
this, but this is me as a fan. Capidano
or Master Killer.
This guy's sick. I don't get that. What
you mean? No. No. This is me. This is
This is both. Okay. Let's go. Let's go.
Let's go.
Wait. Drink it. Shall we? Yeah. both.
Shall we talk about them a little bit?
Hell yeah. Hell yeah. Please, man. Yo,
two legends. By the way, Master Killer
just dropped the album today and I'm on
it and you're on it. I'm on it.
By the way, Master Killer, let me just
tell you something. I haven't rhymed in
so long that when I heard my own verse,
I was like, "How did he get this?" I
don't know. I think he might like I was
like I was like, "Nory, you good?" I I
heard that joint. Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, I swear to God.
Yeah, that album is dope though cuz I
had um what I did was just listen to it
as I was getting a haircut. I listened
to my part obviously and then I mean
first because I was I was I was amazed
at me. I was like really kind of still
got it. So, and then the album just kept
playing and I was just like damn, bro.
You got some. Yeah. Like like hip-hop
hip-hop is still making hip-hop. It's
just we got to we got to search for it
now. We got to search for it now. Damn.
We know what we could do. We got to
search for it. So, we always had to
search for it, right? In all reality, I
mentioned earlier that Jiza took me to
Sound View Projects, right? That's a
long ride to hear hip-hop. Okay. You're
saying it in a different way. It's the
same thing. Yeah. It's a search. It's
like going from Kindle to No, we used to
go to Winwood to all the hip-hop jams in
Winwood. Yeah.
Kindle to to to uh to the W Hotel. No,
but I'm telling you, No, no, no. I'm
telling you from our era. Yeah. From
Kendall, we was going to Winwood where
Zudo Nation used to throw their parties
at. I know, but I'm saying I'm trying to
tell you the distance. I'm not saying
like I'm telling you that's that's the
equivalent of us having to travel to
experience further experience.
I mean what kind?
Yeah. So get on the ferry, man. Yeah. to
get to get it going underserved by to
get the to get the sound view from the
from Staten Island. Minimum
two hours
2 and 1 half hours minimum minimum
listen and it's the Bronx when the Bronx
was like burnt down Bronx no and not
just that from there. Yo, you'll see
Listen, bro. People don't understand
this life of of what hip-hop went
through. Yep. Hip hop went through
dope heads on the floor,
blood, crime,
cops, crooked,
uh, crack, fire, hip hop,
and lived. And now you see somebody
in Korea, you know what I mean? Exactly.
That No, it's a beautiful thing. What
hip-hop did is this? You mind if I to
digress a little bit? No. So, so, so, so
Allah is merciful. Let's just know that,
right?
And we all have arm, leg, leg, arm,
head. So, don't when you hear Allah,
don't get scared. Some people, oh, no.
We all have arm, leg, leg, arm, head.
That image, right? But Allah is merciful
and he finds ways to deliver mercy.
You know what I mean? Hip hop is a
mercy. The Quran was a mercy. They said
it was a mercy. It says, "Allah gave the
Quran to Muhammad as a mercy to man so
he could know what's good and what's bad
and how to navigate through this." And
it's a book of not just spirituality,
it's political, it's business, it's
science, it's husbandry, it's what
wives, it's inheritance, right?
Hip hop comes to our community as a
saving force. It first saves us in New
York. Mhm. But then it continues to
move, right? Okay. It's okay. We saved
these guys. Let's save some West Coast
guys. Let's get the terminals first.
Okay. Now, let's get in the middle.
Let's go to the south. Right. Now, let's
go. Let's Let's go. You hear the new
Indian MC's? Indian MC is out there. Nas
is out there. I tested one out there. Go
over here. The Vietnamese MC's. L. Yo,
listen. I went to when I went to E I'm
I'm one of the first MC's to ever
perform in Egypt. You will never know
that because they don't they didn't
record it, right? They didn't allow it.
It was unallowed. I took me and Sean
Paul. Wow. What a combination sep
separate times. But I'm just saying I
thought y'all were together. No, but I'm
just saying it was like it didn't exist
there. Right. Now it exists. It So
hip-hop has went and saved all these
families. You go to South Africa and you
see a brother pull up with a Bentley.
How he get that hip hop? Not saying that
the Bentley is the is the thing he
should have gotten, right? But when you
get money, the first thing you do is get
the luxury to the the to appreciate the
money. Muhammad Ali said it. They said
to Muhammad Ali, they said, "Muhammad
Ali, you talk about the black man and
all the power you should have and and
you're trying to to, you know, raise the
consciousness of your people and and you
want them to, you know, not be caught up
into the white man's world. But you,
Muhammad, you have a Bentley. How do you
justify that?" He said, "No, no, no. I
have two Bentleys."
He said, he said, "Because my people got
to see that what I do makes something,
means something. They see a value. They
don't want me coming over ripped clothes
and trying to talk to them." That's that
was Jesus' job. He came over, you know,
you know, silk petting. You know what I
mean? The job The job now is to have a
magnetism. Hip-hop is that magnetism.
It's that conduit. It's that Yo, right.
And I've seen so many of us blessed by
it, you know what I mean, that we ought
to be thankful. I'm going to take a
moment right now if you guys don't mind.
No problem. A toast of hip-hop. Let's
toast the hip-hop. Oh, god damn it.
None of us here would be here without
hip-hop. Exactly. Absolutely not. And
look, we talked about his voice earlier,
right? And and and
you know, we all dance to his [__]
joint.
What? What? We all We all know No,
seriously, bro. He threw elbows. He
pushed people out our way when that [__]
came on, right? And he that was a voice,
but he he's hip-hop and his voice wasn't
limited to the music. That's what's
happening to hip-hop. For us elder
statesmen, it don't have to just be the
music. And I'm glad that Master Killer
got a new album and you heard your joint
and it's called Balance. Balance. Name
the whole album. It's called Balance.
Okay. I asked I said, "Why Balance,
Chamal?" He said, "Yo, God, balance is
always needed." Yeah, it is. That's
That's the beauty of hip-hop when it's
balanced. Exactly. And we could agree
right now if it was unbalanced.
Unbalanced. You can have all the [__] in
it. The [__] the [__] and the
righteousness. Exactly. As long as it's
balanced. Exactly. Give me the blue and
the red pill choice. Right. But and give
me some wisdom behind my choice. And
that's what that's what I that's what
that's our I hope that we can provide.
I've been drinking that all that. You
know those W's kind of [__] up a little
bit there. We all got the more you
drink, the more you shouldn't [__] up
any W's. I know. I believe you own the
W.
To the W.
So look,
it's getting better and better. The
colder it gets, the better it gets. But
our bodies is not getting better. Okay,
you know.
Okay.
Damn. I agree with her. What? And she's
like
speed up a little bit.
No, we give me another one. You're good.
I'm in. I'm in. What you got? What's
your next one? I'm in. I'm in. Good. I'm
good. You got it. We'll pass it to you.
You got the ceramic for real. Get the
ceramic. I want the ceramic. Business.
So business. NWA or Public Enemy. Wow.
No, no, no, no, no. Listen, you skip a
million. Relax, buddy. But I was You can
twist it. Oh, you want to twist that
one? Twist a while. Here's my favorite
question on this whole show. Period.
Okay. Oh, here we go. I'm I'm not I
might as well ask him.
NWA or Wu Tang Clan? No, we don't. I
don't I personally don't like you guys
being Everybody doesn't like this
question because of the different eras,
but what I'm saying is it's the same
impact. Even though it's different eras
like what what what NWA did for for for
for Los Angeles, California, West Coast
period was change everything, right?
They made people start wearing curls.
They made people start wearing bandanas.
They made people start, you know, quit
walking, gang banging. What Wu Tang did,
you made black [__] want to be
Chinese. Japanese. You made
[__] wearing Hold on a minute,
man. It's like you you changed the
culture like like so to me the impact
I'm not saying the errors when I when we
put this question together and by the
way this is not our question this these
are these two guys this is cocaine
section Colombian cocaine what up babyca
okay we in Miami
Miami what it be like the
Montana but I I like to ask this
question. It's my favorite question
because the reason why I like to ask it
is because I be wanting people to
understand. I'm not asking the eras or
who came before who or who influenced
who. What I'm saying is the impact. But
you didn't ask it to start with. It was
these guys. It's a big question, but I
thought it was genius. But my argument,
this is my argument why I don't like the
question because I feel and those are my
two favorite groups, NWA and Public
Enemy. I feel like they're the same
energy on different sides. No, I'm tell
different sides of the spectrum. They
actually are the same thing but on
different sides of the spectrum in that
era. They provided us with the balance,
right? And that's what I love about that
question being them too. But when I
think it's Wuang versus NW, I think it's
offbalance in that sense. I respect
that. But let me let me just comment and
you guys can chop it up how you want.
Uhhuh. Right. So
Public Enemy is inspiring NWA. NWA is
not inspiring public enemy.
Seriously, RunDMC is inspiring NWA. NWA
is not inspiring RunDMC.
But that's because the New York is the
mecca of hip hop. So they got to fly to
New York and find the break beats and
bring them back to Cali. They can't find
them with those in those record stores,
right? But when NWA bought the hip-hop
and where they brought to the culture,
it's undeniable. And we don't have
Kendrick at the Super Bowl if NWA don't
exist. Absolutely. Okay. And maybe if
Public Enemy donations as well, cuz I
feel like there's a lineage there too as
well. I I'm going argue that. But NWA
gives us Dr. Dre. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
yeah, it helps. NWA gives us Ice Cube.
If we don't got ice cube, I don't make
movies.
Straight up. Straight up. Right.
And and they continue to go to bring
that goes then we get Snoop and we so so
much. Right. So, and Public Enemy
is is is the consciousness. Public Enemy
actually did their first they did a tour
with Anthrax before any of us did a rock
and roll combination besides Run DMC,
right? But now you throw Wuang into the
equation and I don't mind speaking on
Wuang in this equation, right?
What Wuang does is this,
right? NWA influence is actually the
influence of hip-hop
right now. New York is not selling
records. Mhm.
Okay. Name the top hip hop artist in New
York at the time. Juice Crew.
Juice Crew. You got No. No. By the time
you get to 92, 93, Juice Crew can't sell
records, right? Big Daddy K records.
WA's 88 to 90. Well, I mean, if you want
to take the lineage. Yeah, but they but
no juice. So, we get a platinum big biz.
We get a gold cane. Hold on. We get a We
get a co We get a gold cane. We got a We
got a platinum KRS1. We got a platinum
rock in the 80s. Now, in the ' 90s, none
of them are selling platinums.
Tribe is coming. Leaders is coming.
Gangstar's coming. Tribe is gonna give
you gold. Nobody's giving you platinums
unless it's Poppy.
What about What about Nation? Bam. Like
I said, they come and give us a
platinum.
That's why I said Tre and Onyx are a new
wave of energy. They're the anomaly that
comes up. Exactly. Okay. And still he
gives us a platinum
with a poppy songs which wasn't poppy
but west coast even tone loaf young MC
everybody double platinum platinum
platinum platinums and so even though
tre and tribe and everybody are giving
us this beautiful thing
black moon
you go through that whole underground
movement you're not cracking 300,000
cells.
EPMD didn't do that. EPMD now is going
here. Can I Can I Wait, hold on. But
EPMD, hold on. Respect the EPM. No, Dev
Squad is like my cousins. Squad and then
Dev Squad, right? Yeah, those are my
cousins. I'm just saying it's declining
and the and and let me say this to you
and the investment is is is different
cuz cuz look, even like once again, LL
is one of the greatest. He's he's he's
making it do all this. But I'm just
saying the average investment in
hip-hop,
right? Like let's say what's your first
record deal if you penalty records.
Terrible. Uh economic. What was that?
$5,000. Okay then. You heard that?
$5,000.
Okay. Let's say Wu Tang first album
deal. You know what it was?
60,000. Wow.
$60,000 for everybody for for the whole
album, bro. Nobody got no money. No,
that was we lost money on that.
I just want you to understand this for a
moment, just to get a little culture
thing.
Even Method Man's album, if you take
Method Man's album, his videos and
everything, you're not going to spend no
more than $500,000.
He makes he's going to bring in $20
million.
Wuang is going to bring in $20 million.
Okay. It's business now on the East
Coast.
It's business now. It's marketing
business. It's it's if the Wuang doesn't
come and sell a million records on a
budget like that, it's no business in
hip-hop on the East Coast. Right. So,
you're talking on the business side, not
just the and the culture. It goes both
ways, right? M because now you got the
guy
who like the dude told me to my face,
bro, those hoodies never work.
Like, take the hoodies off. Why? Because
if you go to the west beyond NWA, when
you get Tone and Young and all these
other dudes, dudes are dudes are
are basically Prince.
It's packaged. M
they tried to package me. It didn't
work. Wuang is unpackaged.
So if I become unpackaged, he could be
unpackaged.
Everybody coming after us could be
unpackaged
because it's not a package now. It's
something else happening. So the impact
becomes the similar the same. Of course
the Asian culture is a whole new thing,
right? But then you know how many
brothers started running to the mosque
and studying mathematics? Mhm. You know
what I mean? You know how many dudes as
as the rule movement is happening and
the college kids and and and and the
blacks and the whites and the Spanish
are all kind of vibing into this new
thing and Hot 97 is changing from a club
radio station to a hip-hop radio
station. And the new number one song on
Hot 97, Method, Man, it's changing the
chi.
Now
meth comes and you get a [__] a a
hip-hop Grammy.
All I Need. All I Ne if you go back to
your hip-hop duets,
you can't name 10 of them.
That's not just
uh a Grammy winner. They sold 2 million
copies, bro.
The single at that time, yo, the single
method man single at that time was
competing with we are the world and
single cells. Wow. As far as the
measurement far as the measurement. So
something different is happening on this
side of the world now. So now it's like
there's money over here. It's invest. So
then and then once Cubalene came and
like yo everybody started saying the woo
gambinos and now we taking on identities
the identities changed the whole hip hop
landscape. The identities are still
existing. That's real. So now and it's a
platinum. It ain't like a 200,000
seller. They spend 4 500 grand and make
$10 million. It's good business. So the
impact is the same thing that Dre is
doing on his side of town. Right. Right.
He's making star after star after star
after star and we're doing it. But the
thing that's happening differently
saying it's differently. It's Yeah. It's
No, it's it's almost that I I said I
started this by saying
hip hop is a mercy. Allah gave us a
mercy. I started from there. Then you
went into the two different groups. I'm
tell let you know that. Then he said Wu.
He said he had Wuang and NWA. It's like,
yo, they both had to do a job.
They both had to do a job. Okay. And the
measurement of that job,
you have a guy at the Super Bowl. But
hold on. Who's the guy that hired him?
Another guy. Who hired him? Jay-Z. Jay-Z
don't exist if Wuang don't exist. Fact.
And I'm not saying that with an ego. I'm
saying if we didn't come with cream and
slow it down and put that culture into
it cuz at the time he's he's he's
Gambino makes Jay-Z. Exactly. And of
course, nothing but respect to him cuz
he took took it and and he took it and
multiplied it into what he does, but it
happens. As Yay said, Yay don't come. I
know Yay is is a dirty name right now,
but never to me cuz I got I love I love
that brother, man. love his family. I
wish his family would have just been a
family, but life is unpredictable. Okay?
But he don't exist if we don't exist,
right? And if he don't exist, you got a
whole another slew like a lineage that
don't exist. So, and so you go to Dre
and and you go you go to the to the
Abbott, you get something special. But
you same thing, you go to Chuck D and
you go to uh uh Rico and Andre, you get
something special. I mean, Public Enemy,
Ice Cube, America's Most Wanted. That's
a trajectory in its own. But something
is happening, bro, that when the
historians really study it after we all
leave here, they going to go, "Holy
[__] these dudes, meaning all of us,
including yourself, bro, as you know."
Mhm. These dudes wrote the New Bible.
In the Bible, right, somebody could
Google, I don't know all the numbers of
the books in the Bible.
66 books or something like that.
Somebody Google that. None of us know
that. None of us know that. You know how
to Google, [__] Google it.
I said 66 all the time. Am I right?
Huh?
I don't know why Mr. Lee touching the
computer. Mr. Lee was like, I don't
believe you at all. I don't know. Hold
on. I beat Google. Beat Google.
I get that.
I beat Google. I was faster than Google.
None of us knew that. I knew it. Right.
But point being made, I know 66 books,
right?
There's a book in there called The Book
of Opia.
Is it our first ceramic? It's our first.
Let's talk about this one. Hold on. I'm
in Paul. Let's talk about that. By the
way, you mind? So, put it back for a
moment. Okay. I'm going have I'm sorry
to direct for a moment. I'm going to
have you come in like No, we need We
already said going direct. We all under
you already came with his understanding.
Let me let me get in the spiritual
thing. We get back here. So in the Bible
there are 66 books. You probably all
know the book of Genesis. Yeah. You know
the New Testament, Book of John, Mark,
Luke, all those good brothers. You might
know uh does anybody know the book of
Opadia?
Opalaka.
Oia. My bad. My bad. The book of Oadia.
I would die. Okay. No, you don't. Check
it out. I like that. Good. So, what part
of the testament is this in? Bro,
he might he might have three pages. It
might not be three pages. Oh, it's not a
book at all. Then it's in the No, it's
called the book of Oadia. But it's a
page. If you in the book, you in the
book and you get a book. That's right.
But he only got some a few bars in
there. But he's spitting. But he's in
the book.
is in the book. It's in the book. So
when we think about all of us, bro,
right? We in that book, right? And some
of us will be, you know, NWA. Wow, you
got 40 50 pages. 40 50 pages. Somebody
going to have the open diet. Oh, I see
what you're saying. I see what you're
saying. So I'm saying I see the point
you're making. I like the No, seriously.
But he going to be in the book. And
that's what hip-hop is doing. We're
making Trust me, bro. When you go back
and bring all these [__] lyrics
together and you bring all this [__] and
this historians got to study the times
from 1980,
right? I 73. I take it from 73. Yeah.
Yeah. Let's take 80 cuz I was going with
the the the popularity of the first
platinum record. But listen from 1973
to wherever them spaceships find it,
right?
The most information they going to gain,
it's going to come from hip-hop. Okay.
See, before soul and rock was given
information, cuz you could listen to
Stevie Wonder as as as as long as four
time like he he got some bars.
But in hip hop, the type of information
I grew up on the crime side, New York
Time, the New York Times side is no
second bounce on old man.
A young rocking the go to low. Only way
I would get a G off is drug. Hold it.
Six bars. No, six bars is 10 years.
I started on the crime side. The New
York Times side. That's already within a
frame, right? Staying alive was no job.
He had secondhand clothing. His mother
left his father. So now they moved to
Staten Island. He's a young youth.
rocking a little gold tooth, had a polo
goose, and the only way he began to g
off was drug lube. You done watched a
kid go from a married family
struggle to a single mother family to
now a criminal in the street selling
drugs trying to make a living in six
lines. And that's one MC.
So when when this when the spaceship
[__] Wait.
He said I was the we robbing the
Palmetto. Yeah, Palmetto's in Brooklyn.
In Brooklyn. Oh, for us in Miami, we
took it the Palmetto. We have a
Palmetto. We like it.
But he said pushing a big joint from
down south. So that's why we thought the
Palmetto. No. No. But Palmetto is a spot
in Brooklyn. Yeah, it's a we
joint from down. It makes sense though.
It's like cuz like a big joint for now.
But but the big joint is the car because
in the old days New York [__] will go
to Virginia to buy a whip for less taxes
and drive it back. So now you got a Benz
[__] But you get I got it from down
south [__] Pushing a big joint from
down south. Now I'm filthy stacked up.
Better watch your back.
These fiends they got it cracked up. on
my man from up north. Now he got a
laugh. He done came up. He was locked
up, came home, made money, and got a
loft.
I done I done went from queen to cannon
be though, didn't I? It's okay. Hey,
man. I done remix. We need it all. We
need it all. We need it all. Let me ask
you real quick because everything you're
you're saying in terms of the impact of
everything is musically.
What about all the elements that are
hip-h
speaking on the surface? Of course, it's
lyrics, but nah, bro. How you dress?
Listen, cuz I think that the elements is
what makes hip-hop so special, bro.
EFN,
you pay $150 for a hoodie, bro. 200,
300, $400 for a hoodie that was banned.
They told me you would never get in the
industry. My first video we had on
hoodies, they said throw the video in
the garbage.
Okay, we
the culture when I speak of the culture
of hip-hop. No, I'm not saying the uh
just the lyrics. It's almost like when
the colonist came to a country, they
first send then the priests, right? And
the priest come with the word first. So
in the beginning was the word it says
and then the word becomes flesh. So of
course the word is what penetrates us
first. That's the music. But nah bro I'm
talking about the hairstyles. The
barber.
If the hip-hop barber don't exist, you
don't got to cut, bro.
The other barber the other barber got
you looking like uh leaving the beaver.
So many chambers, bro. Okay. So I so so
when I say NWA and I say Wu Tang or you
say I say you guys NWA Wu Tang Public
Enemy uh you can keep going Outcast
Day Soul you keep naming all these
different rock Kim Nas pivotal groups
right right Biggie they are putting
something in this pallet that is
changing the world you not your girl is
going to tell you to Go get her a Louis
Vuitton bag, bro. Not because of Louis
Vuitton. Because of hip hop.
Godamn. Seriously.
Oh, seriously. Because what hip-hop did
with Louis Vuitton? Because what hip-hop
did with Gucci? It's like those things.
It's like we took,
you know, like one point we had a
problem with sampling, right? sampling
and tried to [__] us and it did. But
that's why you also have this whole new
wave of just trap beats and dope beats
that don't depend upon it, right?
They're depending.
Yeah. And I was just saying they they
they it got electronic for a moment. I
did I did it with Bobby Digital.
Actually, I did it I did Bobby Digital
because they was taking all my [__]
bro. I was like, "Fuck y'all." Then I
hit the button, right? You can't
appreciate that I'm making somebody go
back. When you hear a song like after
the laughter, there'll be tears. It
didn't sell a million records, bro. That
record, but when I sampled it, it sold a
million. Wow. Okay. The real You're
saying the real No way. No way. Sold
like that. But they got that the
publishing off of that. Of course. Of
course. Hip-hop reenergized, right?
Hip-hop did. That's what it
re-energized the value. I say I the
resurrector. I resurrect [__] You know
what I mean? You brought it back. So I
just want to still in in in this punch
line with that hip-hop has been able to
through his culture inspire and create a
value for the world
whether it's K-pop
whether it's the the all the new fashion
all the new fashions come out come out
as said that you argue with me before
that's ridiculous man yo it's hip-hop
K-pop is hip-hop K-pop is is BVD when
they was went R&B hip hop. If you go
back to Bel Bib Devo
and Poison, first of all, what they
sampled?
G rap poison. They always sampled
hip-hop. I know, but that poison sample
for us was everything, but Grap only
sold 200,000 300,000 records at that
time. They sampled Poison. Bam. It's
platinum. Most people don't even know
it's G rap. Damn.
But then but then the the the Are they
doing that too? Are they sampling?
What they're doing now is sampling the
culture. Yeah. Okay. So they checking
out what they supposed to do when
there's a producer over there right now.
He's American. He over there. He caking
the [__] up. Yo, he should be as it
should be. He got He's over there like
listen up. Kund
got 100 beats. Yo. Wow. He control you
going again.
We skinnier than you.
We got the All right. Let me pass the
mic back. Get all good. It's all good.
Hold up. Hold up. Hold up. All right.
So, but hold on. I just got um breaking
news. Is it 7:00? Breaking news. Um Oh,
wow. Wueng clan joins forces with de
Chappelle to unveil their highly
anticipated time capsule tour. Oh, the
time capsule. Yeah. Oh, the time capsule
is uh Oh, man. We got to talk about my
movie. I forgot about the time capsule.
I'll leave that. Yeah. Damn. Okay. So,
so what's the time cap? So, the time So,
no, the time capsule is on our tour.
We're bringing with us a time capsule.
And this is the final tour. This is the
final chamber tour. Final chamber tour.
So, we're bringing this time capsule.
Okay. And wherever we go, every city we
go, we're going to have somebody from
that city put something into that
capsule.
So whe I mean, somebody could put this
one of these in there, whatever.
Somebody will be lucky enough to put
something in theirs in that time capsule
and we're going to figure out the end or
we're going to put that time capsule on
the top of a mountain. We're going to
put it somewhere, but it's going to be
the the Woo time capsule that captured
everything. So what happened? I never
heard of this. Yeah, I it's a new thing.
Okay. Okay. But what happened was the
tour starts on June 6 in Baltimore.
Okay. But Dave had asked me 5 years ago.
He said, "Yo, Rez, if you get the Wuang
Clan to come to Yellow Springs, Ohio,
those [__] will go bananas."
He has a small club in Yellow Springs
that only holds. You guys been there?
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yo, Noo went there. No
way. Exactly. But it was like we don't
come we only coming together now for our
tour. Right. So officially off the grid,
off the record. The first stop of this
tour was Yellow Springs, Ohio. Wow.
Okay. So the tour already started
unofficially. Unofficially. Okay. You
said that. I But no, the first show
Yeah. So you can say the first show of
the tour, yes, it started. Okay. Was in
Yellow Springs, Ohio at Dave Chappelle's
Club. Wow. So that means he got to do
what? Or they got to do what? They have
to put something in the time capsule.
Wow. And Dave, I don't know what he put
in there. But Dave, whatever the Ohio
people did, like he has something that
he's putting into this time capsule. So
when we get to Baltimore, they'll be the
second people. Dave beat them to the
punch. Oh, so you don't know what these
people are putting in the time? No. No.
They can put they want in there. I put
in first. I'm first. Sorry about that.
Okay. Okay. Okay. I put in some floppy
disc.
Yeah. Okay. From the flood. Okay. Okay.
From the flood. Yeah. So, I had a flood
that wiped washed away a lot of my
beats. It's like a biblical. And so, I
took a couple of a real flood. Uhhuh.
Not the slang flood. Well, okay. All
right. All right. So, I had a had a
flood that washed away all my floppy
disc. Uhhuh. And I still have those
floppy discs, but they just don't work
in the ASR10 no more. Okay. Because they
got damaged. And so I took a couple of
floppy disc and I put them in a time
capsule as my contribution to the
future. So that means that the this
floppy disc if people discover this
wherever you put the time capsule at
later on in life you discover this this
might be some unreleased Wuang songs
either either either unreleased or is it
the original
something stems of the of a song? No, it
it may be unreleased. Some of the stuff
never never happened. I never sampled
it. So, do you understand? You went to
the bathroom. Mommy, we'll have Sorry.
I'm giving fears out to the people. All
right. So, they just unveiled him and um
who taking Day Chappelle that I saw the
post. I didn't I didn't see an
unveiling.
Yeah. So, uh what they doing is for each
stop on the tour, they're going to have
a time capsule. Yeah. It's one time
capsule probably about, you know, like
this, right? So you don't bring the
[__] turntable. Okay. Right. But
every city we go to,
somebody is allowed to put something
into that time capsule for their city.
Anything? Yeah. I mean, something
reasonable, bro. Right. Right. I know
used condo and [__] But no, something.
What I'm trying to say is something
related. Yeah. Yeah. Something something
that's related or that makes sense that
somebody could appreciate. like like I
put in two floppy disc um from my old
beat machine that that doesn't work,
right? So I put that in there, right? So
Dave put in something from whatever he
put in and that was the only two things
that's in there is what I put in and
what Dave put in. Our first stop will be
Baltimore and somebody from that city
will put something in. And every city we
go to hopefully at the end of the day
we're able to hit the world with this
and everybody around the world gets to
put something in that box. [__] And
that box becomes you got to come to the
joint. Is you going to Miami? No. Yes.
Yes. One day. But right now, we're not
scheduled.
No, I said the ring champs help schedule
that. Hey, yo, bro, we going to Tampa. I
said, yo, we could be a part of that.
Okay, so come to Tampa. But still, I was
like, how we going to Tampa? Let me go
to Miami. Miami is is the worst city for
tours. No, it ain't. We can't even We
killed Miami for Well, Miami, I'm saying
tours in general. Ticket Master. I mean,
I don't know. From back in the days from
marketing times that I worked, they've
always said that. Yeah. Okay. Cuz Miami,
they they don't buy tickets. They go to
Club 11. Yeah. They go to the club live
and hang out with booby trap and stuff
like that. Yeah. So, let's explain Let's
explain this um ceramic. Okay. Bum bum.
All right. So, I'm going to do this like
a like a public announcement. I'll
respect that. Hey yo, you got the RZ in
the building. I got EFN in the building.
I got Nory in the building. They invited
me to drink chat. That's right. Check
[Applause]
it out. He invited me like for years
years and and always wanted to be come
but but it was different circumstances
that didn't allow me and it bung bong
bong but this circumstance allowed me.
Yes. But as I watch his show, he's
always drinking some [__] Some [__] I
can say. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We good. I
say [__] [__] you want. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Bleep all my [__] I don't want
to say [__] Cool. Cool. Some [__]
bleed my [__] You going to bleep all
my [__] You got to bleed. My [__] My
[__] My [__] My [__] The cocaine
section. My [__] My cocaine [__]
Bleed all my [__] You can't cocaine
[__] Bleed my [__]
Anyway.
So, so, so I said I'll come bunk bunk
with you and we here. But I wanted to
drink something that's more of a upper.
Okay. And so we have saki. We've been
drinking saki this whole [__] This is
the special one. Three bottles. This is
the third one. This is our fourth
bottle. What bottle is this? This is the
third. It's the third. Yeah, it's the
third. You did one. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Is
this the special one? This the special
one. You want this? Oh, yeah. It's a
special one. Special. Special. This our
special bottle. Special. Look at this
bottle. Look at
Hey, where the camera man at? You want
to zoom in on that? Yeah. Yeah. Zoom in
on that. Yeah. Hey yo. So you say
cocaine wife.
You got the cocaine addict. Yeah man.
My brother going to sniff that my
brother. No. You can sip it but you
can't sniff it.
[Music]
So why why is this one white? A ceramic.
It's ceramic. Yeah ceramic. What's
What's the difference with the other
bottles we had? That's the big boy one.
I'm trying to help the process here. You
know what? It's crazy. The other bottle
was black. Right. Right. And then we had
a blue one, I think. Or no. Yeah.
Listen, we try to represent all the
human families.
The blue family. Hey, the blue from the
blue pop off the avatar.
That's what we drink. We drink the clear
one and the blue one. The yellow one,
right? The other one kind of yellowish.
Why you not bringing the Latino family
out? We did. We had Wait, wait. What's
What's the Latino? We have one more
left. We have several several. Let me
see the rest. Let's see the
bring all humanity out here. I ain't
going to lie. This [__] got me nice, but
like like
this shit's like shroom. Like you're
like, but not really. But you know
what's so crazy? We all drink, right?
And we drink because that's what we do,
right? But if you going to drink,
honestly, bro, you better all drink a
saki. No, Saki is a great drink. It's a
better It's better for you. There's the
Latino, I think. Oh, which one's Latino?
That one.
I think that one's different than the
first one. You're saying that's not
Latino.
I feel like I can say something. What's
this one? This one? That's the That's
the aliens. This is That's the future.
That's who we are. on the AI. Yeah, the
AI version
cuz that's the big boy. Hold up. But
this is
the big boy one.
Hey, listen. Cuz it's ceramic.
Also, look at that top. Hold on. Look at
that top, bro. That top is like That's
how you know what I mean. Like that's
like a nice hat right there, son.
She open it. It go like this, bro. Let
me know. I'm glad you as
that [__] was tilted though like that.
Okay. Anyway, hold on. We're not
marketing this [__] We drinking it. But
okay, we've been through some bottles,
right? This bottle just came out
recently. I've been drinking this for a
couple of years since we was in uh
Paris. Me and Me and Nory drunk this in
Paris.
No, this [__] This is You drunk I think
in Paris. You might have been one of
these. Okay. Yeah. But you told me when
I saw you at Ray's wedding, you was
like, "Yo, you [__] me up with that."
I was like, "Taste so good." I said,
"I'm going to [__] him up again." And
then when we decided to when I when my
time allowed me to be here and bless and
you guys have blessed me with the time
together
that ceramic. Come on. I was like, we
going with saki. So here goes the saki.
The ceramic. The long version. You going
to have to pour this. This is the bunk.
Make sure all our cups are clean. It's
called the bongi. No. Bongi bong. No.
No.
know it's called Heaven Sakei
got to be called the Bangi. Okay. You
know, anybody out there who works for
that company? Yes. He renamed it. The
Bangi got a little bit left. Let me
drink that. But yo, hold on real quick.
You want to real quick, right? Read read
the word. Just just read the word of the
name of the brand. What does it say? His
brother. Huh? Heaven's sake. And oh, he
said it. Say it again. Heaven's sake. He
said heaven's sake. or Heaven Saki.
Right. So, there's a song on the Wuang
album that's called Heaven's Sake. So,
Heaven Saki poor. No. So, when I saw
this, when I saw it, I was like, he's me
right now. You want me to say it wrong?
You said it right.
You like if ain't going to [__] that up
and it's going to repeat.
Yo, son. What is that [__] son? Bobby.
All right, bro. Let me break it down.
I'll be excited about this one cuz Mr.
Lee couldn't find it at all. Mr. Lee,
how did we find it? Someone bought it.
Somebody bought it to him. Oh, Japan.
All right, cool. All right. Yo, yo, yo.
Tell my Japanese brother over there.
Japanese.
Just ride with it. He's on camera.
Nor I don't know, bro. You know what's
so crazy about about Japanese language?
Uhhuh. Uhhuh. If you can't remember
Japanese language, the best thing to do
is to try to take the word and make it
an English sentence.
Like a, right? Thank you. That means
thank you. But but how would you flip
that?
For me, I say you got a lot of gate,
man.
A little cat. I got I got those. Teach
me another one. She's another one. Uh
uh.
So, okay. How do we flip out? That goes
to a girl. Oh my god.
Kichi. Yeah. And then you saying no. Oh,
you hear what I just said? I don't think
I want to say it on the mic. Gohead
again. Yeah. Yeah. For Kichi. Konichiwa.
Kichi. Hold on. Huh?
Can I eat you? Can I eat you?
Can I eat you out? I don't know. Can I
eat you?
I don't know. I'm here to help you
remember the words. Yeah, Mr.
Hold on. Oh, say not
tonight. Not tonight. S not tonight.
Anyway,
no, that's bad. Cut that out.
It's fun. It's fun. Help me take it
serious. It's all funny. It's our first
ceramic shot. Ceramic ceramics. I drink
expensive whiskey. I drink expensive
[__] And where do we get the ceramics
from? We going to mail it to you. I'm
going tell you like this. I'm going to
tell you like this.
Smells a little stronger than the other
ones. Smells sweeter. Dip it. Actually,
I smell sweetness, but I smell that
strongness as well. Nice. All right, let
me try. All right, go. Tell me what you
feel. Do you feel the karate kit inside
of you?
I'm going second. Smooth. I'm in. I'm
in. Smooth though. It smells stronger.
Oh, wait a minute.
That's good. That's good. Yeah. Let me
tell Can I tell you something? That's a
cat around my heart right now. That's
nice.
Let's tell the audience something. When
we was first talking about doing this
episode, we actually we wanted to go to
Japan and we were so hyped about that.
Can I hold Hold on. Can I invite you to
Japan? Yes. Hold on. Wait. I said I name
this. Yeah. I like that he understood. I
said, "Can I
sit in Japanese?" I know what I said.
Can I invite you guys to Japan? Yes. If
you ever invite me back to the show. No.
What do you mean ever? This is your home
now. We got to go to Japan one. Please.
Let's do this. We I'm going to a special
drink. Yo. Um, we got to make that
happen. Yeah, please. All right. Bunk
bunk, please. So,
Drake Champs is one of the top and and
pioneering hip-hop podcast.
Of of it all. And I'm happy that you
sparked so many other brothers and a lot
of brothers are eating well because of
you. Yes. You know what I mean? Yes. Oh,
may you be eating well at the tank. Yes.
Yes. That's right. I got I did.
and and and um now it's a privilege for
me to be here and an honor. I'm glad I
decided to [__] with you. You know what?
One thing happened to me too. I could
talk. So, you know, I took my shahada.
Right. Right. Even though when I got
knowledge of self, I already
you know of self. You kind of already
have you got shahada when you have
knowledge of self knowledge of self.
When I when my days, they make you fast
three days before they give you the
lessons. You talking about the lessons
of the 5%. Yes. Yes. You fast three
days. Yeah. And so so so what's the
difference between taking taking your
shahada because fasting three days and
getting the lessons we talking about the
120 lessons? Yeah, the 120 lessons,
right? I had to fast for three days and
I got that. But then when I did the
shahada, right? First of all, my lesson
said the lesson says that what what is
your own self? What is what is your own
self? And they were speaking primarily
to the Latins, the Native Americans and
the black men of America who
uh kind of was lost from ourselves. Is
that why they said the the Asiatic black
man? Yeah. The Asiatic meaning that life
itself was more of origin in Asia. At
one point the whole planet was called
Asia, right? It wasn't called Africa.
Africa is more of a later name. Maybe
2,000 years old at best. Maybe 1500
years old before the continents moved as
well. Yeah. it. Yeah. Yeah. It was just
Asia just means land, right? Right.
Right. So everything was land before we
started painting borders. But it said
that
our own selves are righteous Muslims.
Now what do that mean?
Would you consider yourself righteous
EFN or will you try to be righteous? Try
to be for sure you try to be righteous.
Absolutely. And I strive to be
righteous. Okay. And the word Muslim
mean Muslam meaning either one from the
city or from the idea of peace.
So basically you could translate the
word Muslim to a man of peace. Do you
feel like you're a man of peace? Yeah, I
do. You feel like you're a man of peace?
I feel like I'm a man. So our our one of
our strivings is to be a righteous man
of peace.
And because that's one of our strivings,
right?
because that's our physical presence.
It's healthy for us to acknowledge that,
right? So, when I took the shahada, I
took I did knowledge to that because my
lesson already described who I was. Now,
then some people some people hit me up
there, yo, why you drinking, bro?
You know what I mean? After your Okay,
go ahead. And I just said to them, I
want I just say at the end of the day,
you know, my strive is my strive. You
know what I mean? I'm sure there'll come
a time I won't drink. I stop smoking and
I'll continue to become as more things.
Right. Exactly. More advice as I can.
You know what I mean? But as I'm moving
through my entertainment world and and
and dealing with this these things, I
actually don't drink before I go on
stage before I drunk every time. So
everything is getting better and better.
And that's the goal of it to have a path
to get better and better. Now also I'm a
Shaolin disciple.
And so Shaolin
was founded or brought to the surface by
a man named Bodhi Dharma.
And Bodhi Dharma, yeah, he drunk wine.
And that's why you have a drunk Buddha,
a laughing Buddha, drunken, a sleeping
Buddha. You got all these different
things because these are all different
expressions of what a man might have to
go through to find enlightenment. M so
our lessons teach us that we are by
nature we should be righteous and we
should be a men of peace but bodhi
dharma means enlightened
righteousness
enlight so now you could be righteous
but how about enlightened righteousness
and so do my shallin studies that's what
I strive to be you look at the rza may
you see enlightened righteousness that's
striving for peace Right. Just want to
share that with you brothers. All right.
Got it. Now, there's a rumor that to
come see you, you got to walk up a 100
steps to come see told you that. Yeah.
Yeah. No, I do know that. No. No.
Because No, cuz No. I My my other studio
My other studio. Did you recreate the
Shining Temple? No. The other studio we
call I call the studios Temples. The
other studio. Yeah. You had to walk up
these when you get up there, you be out
of breath, bro. I got I should give you
one story you should edit about that.
But when you walk up the studio steps,
you get there, you out of breath. And
that's that. But but then I I've got me
and my wife bought another spot. And we
built the studio there. And this studio
now you got to walk down 120 steps. Oh
[__] So gag is you can walk down 120.
You got you got to still walk up. leave.
You're not. So, it makes you not want to
leave.
It makes you not want to leave. But one
quick story. You can edit this in cuz I
we drinking. Let me know. We went out of
time. There's no time for you. All
right. So, yo. So, so, so yeah. So, I
have a studio that's way up. The studio
I had was built up 120 steps. And, you
know, when Bus came through, he did the
120. Nas came through, he did the 120.
You know, the uh whatever, whoever came
through did the 120. Right. Right. And
uh you know you you get up there out of
breath. I did a song with my brother, my
hero, my wife's hero.
Sly from Sly and the Family
Stone. So Sly Stone comes to do a song.
I'm doing this thing called Afro
Samurai. And I want to do a a song. I
want to remake Family Affair. Family.
And my wife is a big Sly fan. like,
"Baby, um um I think I got I talked to
George Clinton and he's going to bring
Sly to the studio. We going to do that
song over." It's like, "Cool." All
right. So now,
um we, you know, but Sly is quite
adamant if you're going to do this
session, he needs at least half the
cheese up front. You know what I mean?
I'm cool with that. All right. Cool.
Bam. Lama. Here's half the cheese. Okay.
He comes to the sessions
and it's those steps. Oh [__] right.
And and and you know, so he wants the
second half,
but he got to hit these stairs, right?
So he so and he has this gentleman with
him. This gentleman he had with I can't
really describe this gentleman. This
gentleman kind of like he was
baldheaded, but he had like a string of
hair that hung off the side and [__] I
couldn't like a monk. I He wasn't a monk
though. I'm saying like a monk. Like a
monk. Like a like some very very very
unique individual.
Like I don't I don't know what that what
that was. But remember they come from an
era
pre
they come from the uh psychedelic era.
Some [__] was happening. Yeah. He might
have been psychedelic.
That was a psychedelic. Yeah. And I met
him at Sly House. And then Sly pulls up
to like the studio and Sly has this van
that's like his personal van. He like
when he travels this bed, this van has a
bed, bathroom. Holy [__] It's a
Scooby-Doo type van. Good. Right. And so
he's like, "Yo, I mean, I don't know
what he's like. I'm in the studio,
but I'm waiting for him, but he never
comes up." And then all of a sudden the
guy with the one bong carries him up.
Yeah. No, no. He shows up and he knocks
on the door. You open up like, "Hey,
where's Sly at?" He's like, remember
it's 120 steps. He's like,
"Brother Rizza, brother Sly was
wondering could he get the rest of the
advance
before he comes up."
I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever,
whatever." You know what I mean? Just
tell brother slide to come on up. We'll
do the song. We got the advance and
it'll be all good. Just tell him come on
up. He's like, "Okay." So now he has to
go back down.
So he goes back down.
He comes back up again. No slide. No
slide.
Brother,
[Laughter]
brother,
brother SL wondering if you could at
least give me a a portion. I'll do your
batch
before he comes up. I'm like, I'm
smoking too. You know what I mean?
Like like how much? You know what I
mean? Hey, I tell brother Sly I do have
some cash here. It's just, you know, I
don't really keep cash. Yeah, you're not
telling you, but I do have some cash
here. Could you go ask Brother Sly like
how much cash
being cool
to get him up here? Yeah. He goes down
again
[Music]
doing the tail.
The hair is like
out of breath.
He tells me the number though
5,000. You know what I mean? I'm like
[__] I look I don't I don't really got
5,000. I got 2500 cash right there. I
don't know. Shabo had it. Somebody had
it. And my guy got tell
he got you know 2500 whatever.
He goes he comes back with him the
fourth time though. You know what I
mean? But the point of the story is that
those steps, you know what I mean?
Serious. Yeah. It mean it means you
coming to work.
Once he gets up there, he's working
back. And brother Slot came up, sat I
had a rose piano and he sat there, bro.
And he played It's a family aair and
sung that [__]
and and and I know you never come to the
studio like that. She comes when she
comes by. I was like cuz of the steps.
or you step everything. No. Okay. The
studio. If she comes to the studio,
she's coming to flush everything down
the toilet. Right. Right. Right. Okay.
Okay.
It's the old days. I don't get I don't
smoke or drink. I drink. I don't smoke
nothing. But the old days, you can come
to my studio. I don't mind share this
with you and you can throw it in the
garbage or you keep it. Look, we going
to keep it. If you came to my studio,
bro, no matter what you did, it's in the
cabinet. I don't do everything you do.
Oh, you saying like all the bad habits.
No matter what you if you say, "Yo, Riz,
all I do is eat monkey
[__] with soap and piss." I got a job
for you.
If you come to the studio, I got you
covered, bro. I got dudes that came that
had no session cuz they knew that you
come to the studio. No session. They
just wanted to hang. They walking 120
steps. They walk 120 steps.
So if she came up there though
and and all that [__] is there, all that
[__] goes in the toilet in the garbage
cuz that's not healthy for us. She
always was promoting health for us,
consciousness and health and [__] So
she'll come throw it out. All the guys
are coming. Yo [__] what happened? I
said my wife came up and [__] Don't
worry.
24 hours I'll be restocked. Right.
Right. So brother but brother Sly comes
up. Uhhuh. And I'm like, "Yo,
uh,
let me call downstairs and have her come
up cuz I sleep." And I call her
downstairs and she came up and watch
Brother Sly perform this song. Yo, so
you don't have an elevator on the side
of the steps, bro. You need a a zipline
if like crazy. No, it's deep. There's no
elevator there. Oh, okay. I don't
remember how Buster told me the story.
How did you know that Buster told me
that story? Cuz when he came up the
stairs, he was like, "Yo,
yo, God."
He was like, "Yo, G." Like, "You serious
about that kung fu [__] God?
You on some? You want some real White
Lotus Temple [__] Lord?"
He was like, "It's a one time visit,
Lord."
He was like, "But I had that yellow
machine though. They had Matt." He was
like, "Empty that motherfucker." And I
emptied it for Oh [__] That's
hilarious. Let's uh How we doing? How we
doing? No, we great. We didn't even
finish.
Hold on. I got this. I got this. Liquid
swords or return to the 36 chains.
We'll put a 15-minute timer on them.
Okay. Okay. Oh, we got to talk about the
movie, too. I put a 20-minute timer and
did we do the movie? We do the movie.
All right, cool. All right, so Liquid
Wars or Return to the 36 Chambers in
which way? Whichever way you
I mean, I don't even think that's fair.
Easy win. I don't know. Oh, I think
that's hard. Well, well, that's what I
say. I say in which way, right? They
both are two unique things, right? Mhm.
But if you must be like like in the
hip-hop Kanan, people going to say
Liquid Schwarz, right? But the thing
that OB did and and and this trying to
make my my answers shorter and [__] like
you can put a two-minute timer on me.
You good, right? The thing that ODB did,
which people don't realize OD OB made
the first hip-hop comedy album. Yeah, he
did. I thought Bis
about that. Okay. I'll say Biz is a
father. You're right. Yeah. So ODB
and he moderniz modernized. He bought
into the tradition. Yeah. I mean his
[__] is almost Richard Priaryy, right?
You know what I mean? And and and for me
creating it with him, you know, it was
like intentional.
One of the best beats on the album,
right, to me was called Going Down. And
that beat was actually for Havoc. Wow.
And [__] When Havoc, cuz Steve was
like, "Could you help produce Mob Deep
album?" And then I met Havoc before, but
but then when we met in the office that
day, I was like, "You don't need me,
God. Just do it yourself." Like the same
thing What you call told me, uh, Daddyo,
I said to him, "Yeah, like produce all
your own shit." Yes. best in Bong Bong.
He made some of the best [__] in
history, right? But I still had but but
I promised him one. Okay. And it was
this track called Going Down. But then
ODB said I want it, right? I [__] it.
God, you have what you want, right? But
in the middle of that track,
he's his his weird they upstairs cooking
fish up in the uh upstairs and they and
they and they cooking [__] and we down
in the studio. He was like, "Yo, God,
uh I want to do something crazy in the
middle." I said, "What? I want my Wiz to
come down and argue with me."
I was like, "That's genius."
So I said, "Yo, come down. And I'm like,
"You guys gonna get into an argument.
I'm gonna record this shit." And they
record an argument. [__] But that was a
real argument. I mean, good enough. You
know what I mean? Like they probably
reenactment. Yeah. Good enough though,
right? Reenactment, right? And then the
gag was in the middle of that argument,
he's going to sing Somewhere Over the
Rainbow
and he does it. And that's in the middle
of a song. So, so, so that, so no other
album can do that in the in the whole
Wuang Ken. So, ODB brought something to
the table that's crazily unique and and
like he said, it was new a new chamber.
But how how often did he do that? Did he
insert his vision on the tracks for his
I mean, no, for me and him, yes. He like
like like there's times where
as the Abbott, I demand what he do,
right? cuz I cuz I had that position. I
could say, "Yo, you going to do do
this." They promised that I give me five
years of saying I can say whatever I
want to say, right? Everybody agreed. So
it was time I told him do this. No, this
like this the track stomp. He made that
track and then gave it to me to finish.
Wow. You know what I mean? I I said,
"Yo, go buy ASR." He bought ASR. He only
made four beats in his whole life
cuz he really wasn't that patient,
right? You know what I mean? But he made
that track stump, you know what I mean?
I just add the B and some other [__] to
it. But that's that's just to let you
know. He he was very involved with his
album. But certain things I was like,
"No, you're doing this. You're doing
that. I need this." Or remember that
song you did when you was a kid. I need
this. But when he was when you hear us
say he has one song where he does the
same he has two songs on the album and
they they both got the same verse,
the exact same verse or two separate
songs. two songs. Two different
publishing checks. Same album. On the
same album. It's called Damn it. He does
the same rhyme on three songs if you
really check it. He he drew a piece of
it for another song.
It went it went. He said, "Yo, God,
trust me."
That's all right. I trust you. When he
did shame on a [__] he came in so late
in the studio. I was I was angry. I was
like, "Yo, man, you say going, "Yo, [__]
that guy." was he had a [__] with him
and [__] Yo, go just turn the mic on
cuz it is my cousin. Right. Right. And
he know if I go at it, it could be a
two-hour argument and then we get to
work. Right. He's like, "No, turn the
mic on. I [__] all the puss." We went in
there in one take, [__] He did that
song. Wow.
Shame on a [__] that tried to run game
on a [__] Pow. I was like, "Now finish
the hook, God." Nah, [__] That's
finished. I said, "Now, you didn't say
everything. They going to love it.
I'm like, "Fuck it." I kept it. I
believed them. Did you really believe
him though? Yes. Okay. No, I totally
take a shot of believing in I totally
believe him. Take a shot, old. Rest in
peace.
Let me let me tell you something. As as
a person that knew you for a long time,
the one time I I felt like this is me as
an outsider looking in.
I felt an uncomfortable situation was
when I seen you, Dirty, and Dame Dash
together, right? Like, like I ain't
going to lie, like, you know what I
mean? Um, you saw my uncomfortability
like a [__] I saw it because,
you know, I just know I one I'm an
artist. I'm in the industry and I'm
watching this through BET, right? So,
I'm not it's not like like it's not no
inside information. I'm actually
watching this with the people. Right.
But I think that you knew that he didn't
belong there or you felt that he didn't
belong there, but you was respecting
your cousin's decision and you was
respecting your artist because in this
game it's frowned upon to keep keep
somebody, right? So you you so you so I
I saw you let him go, but then I saw you
like work with him, but I saw your
hurtness in your heart. I don't know if
I'm accurate with that. You accurate
with that, yo. Okay, I'm all right. Cuz
like this is this is me watching on TV
and I'm like I'm like I'm like the edit
was bad. Okay. The edit made it worse.
Okay. Okay. Like in the edit it just
shows me and him in the room with Dame.
Then it shows me kind of walking out.
Mhm. And you can see my hurt. Right. In
the reality that ain't how it happened.
Right. In the reality is me, him, and
Dame.
And
I told Asan, "Yo, let me and Dame just
talk for a minute." Mhm. Let Let me
Let's go here. Because he had made the
deal with Dame in the jail, right? Yeah.
Okay. Go ahead. I'm sorry. That's a
whole another thing. Okay. He didn't
make the deal with Dame. Oh, wow. Wow.
He had someone have power over attorney
while he was locked up and they made the
deal. Oh. But like they say, the game is
to be sold, not told. Okay. But
what Dame said to me in the part they
edited out,
he said something to me that I couldn't
deny. Yo, he said, "Yo,
Rez, your family came to me."
Like meaning Dirty's family. The family.
Yeah. Whoever was representing Dirty,
his family, like you saw, you saw that
press, everybody was there. His, you
know, his mom was there, Papa, everybody
was there. This is when he came home. He
came home. Yeah. I wasn't there. I had
just talked to dirty. I already had a
deal for him, right? You know what I
mean? Right. I was like, "Yo, you come."
I had a deal and a plan. My deal was
like, "You come home. I built a gym for
you. I got an apartment in Manhattan,
5,000 ft, studio already, right? Okay. I
said, "Yo, you need a woman? I got a I
got I got girls I can send you. I'm
serious." I was like, "Yo, I got you,
God. Just come home." You know what I
mean? My [__] was maybe 950. I didn't
have the M cuz I had to pay a couple
people. [__] You know what I mean?
Right. Right. But I got you. I basically
had the same M in all reality, right?
Right. And he's like, "Cool." And then I
flew to Europe for a couple of weeks cuz
that's some, you know, the goals he
does. And then I found out from the
press. Wow. And so, but so anyway, so it
was sad for me. But when Dame said was
so real in the world of the reality of
life, he said, "Yo, Bri, they got
nothing I know to nothing to do with
you. Their family came to me. I when
they think they would ask me, ask them
what they want, they said a million
dollars. I said, "Cool." So that
difference made the difference. I was
like, "I'll argue with that." Mhm. I
can't argue with that. Mhm. Right. So
then I just asked Asan, "This is what
you want to do?" He's like, "Yo, God,
yeah, let me do this." You know what I
mean? I was like, "When you So when you
see me walking out with that soggy, sad
face." Mhm. Cuz it wasn't about the
money or nothing. I could have said,
"Okay, how about 2 million?" Right.
Right. But I just felt like, right,
I just felt like,
like, like you said, it wasn't it wasn't
he didn't belong there. Mhm. You know
what I mean? You don't want to be a
hater. Yeah. I want to be like, I'm
stopping progress. They they kind of
running the game, right? They got they
they shining bright. Who would want to
be signed to Rockefeller at that time?
Especially at that time, right? Even,
you know. Yeah. G unit [__] It's like,
yo, let's that's it. You know what I
mean? It's like that's what it is. But
I'm I'mma tell you again. You could
correct me if I'm wrong, but it wasn't
that when I seen it to you. It was yo,
you you you with the wrong not the wrong
people meaning like the wrong people,
but you I know how to make you sound. I
know like that's that's what I was
taking. I was like, damn. I was like I
never said I don't want to say I want to
say I want to say disappointment maybe
is a word like that you was I was super
disappointed. Okay. No. You if you saw
that yo they say a camera catch right
now. Whoever the camera catch a [__] is
real. They say the camera see through
your [__] Right. Cuz you had a
vision. You had a vision for what he was
going to do. Yeah. Right. His vision
wasn't only for his music was for his
life. Right. Right. You had a vision.
People don't realize this and I always
got to do something on top of that. You
know me as you know me. You know me. I'm
doing on your whole show. Let's go. But
yo, G, how far you become from yourself?
So, let's say a [__] is 200 lb and now
he's 400 lb. How much other [__] other
than himself and he put on himself?
That's what a lesson says. How did he do
it? He made him other than himself. Once
you make you once I can make you other
than yourself,
I can make you suck that crack pipe like
a [__] That's what they say
pork is. Pork is anything that makes you
other than yourself. Not just the people
who meet pork. Pork is anything. Twine
is something that makes you other than
yourself. Other than yourself. Exactly.
So you become, you might not know you
other than yourself. Right. You know
what I mean? You sitting there, you
don't even realize that, yo, G, you used
to be the Mac Daddy Dawn and you did all
your [__] and you done [__] around and
and Sansson slept with the light up for
[__] 8 months and now he's he's like
the dick drain and muscles ain't working
and the [__] cut his hair.
You other than yourself. Then he had to
go back and pray to Allah to get that
strength back. But then he still got to
do what? Die in his own iniquity. That's
why the lesson says in Ezekiel chapter
3, it says you can get a warning and you
can save, but you still have to die in
your iniquity. Mhm. So other than itself
when I when I saw Asan come out of the
system
cuz Asan is first of all, Asan was
flying in most of the room members at
first.
Asan almost brought Polo and Bali to
Staten Island. Let's just talk about it
for a quick moment. Okay. Okay. A song
is a [__] coming from Brooklyn, my
cousin, coming in with Bama Lama, Polo
all the way down, [__] And [__] is
still Bill Blast. You remember Bill
Blast? Anybody know Bill Blast? I got
somebody. Okay, we got to get a Bill
Blast.
You know what I'm saying? Asan is that
guy, right? He was Asan unique, right?
He was fly. Yo, he wasn't old dirty
bastard. He became old. I gave him that
name and it materialized. I gave him
that name for a different reason. We'll
talk about another time. But I didn't
expect it to overtake him. You know,
that's why I said the word is powerful.
But when he came out of the system,
he wasn't neither. Right. We talking
about came out of jail. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? So he
wasn't neither. Wasn't neither. None of
those names. He was it was something
else. And then when they didn't nurture
to find to go back and find him, they
didn't nurture. I think that's
interesting what you said earlier. I
think you said you had an apartment for
him, but you said you had a gym phone.
Yeah, exactly. I knew that he needed
that.
Most people come home from jail
in shape. In shape. But that that that
the people that come home
that gain weight are mainly depressed
because jail food sucks. So that means
they had to go to the commissary and eat
all those dirty snacks. Not just that.
No. Yeah. Like you know them sugary
snacks. No, you're right about that. No,
you're right about that. Cuz regular
comments have I mean regular food sucks.
Keep it keep you in shape though. Yeah.
Yeah. But it it'll keep you in shape.
You know what I mean? Cuz it's it's
processed carbs. But if you
go into the you know you know um that
that's all that's
hydrox. That's where the um Oreos are.
That's where the Twinkies are. That's
where all that is. So that's but that's
that's a sign of depression. Yeah. Of
course he's depressed. Sugar is a sign
of depression. Listen, Asan unique don't
belong in a cage. Asan is one of the
asan unique for all our listeners out
there.
Old dirty was freedom put into a body.
Allah is merciful. He always sends
something for us. Mhm. If old dirty
didn't exist and the rest of the world
don't understand what freedom means.
Freedom of expression.
Old Dirty was freedom itself
in a he was you know if you've seen Old
Dirty right if O Dirty was coming if we
was doing this interview right now and
Dirty walked in whatever he wanted to do
is what is going to happen and we're
going to do cameras or nothing none of
that mean nothing right if he had to
piss and he came in and pissed in this
container right here
he would have did it and left and it
would have just been Like [__] foul.
That's that's what foul
but real like god damn it would have
been real. Yo yo he he so the time he yo
yo yo he was driving on a on a on a vero
bridge turned this car sideways block
traffic [__]
mind you he's driving with a 40. I'm
right here passenger seat hitting 90.
It's it's a dangerous ride bro. But now
he pulls, stops the whole travel like a
cop, get out and takes a piss,
gets back in the car and drives. Yeah,
God. So anyway, like I was saying,
he was embodiment of freedom. Now take a
guy like that and put him in jail.
Right. Yeah. He couldn't take it. They
said he tried to set himself on fire in
jail. I didn't I I saw the documentary.
They said Dirty tried to set himself on
fire in jail. Wow. He couldn't take
that. This guy is free. So when he comes
out, you seeing
um a very suppressed energy. Mhm. And
then like you said, the hydrox and the
Oreos, all that is now growing around.
It muted him. Yeah. And now he's now all
this other he's not the one man army a
song no more. Right. So anyway, yeah,
it's crazy. Um the other day I was
having an argument. two people arguing
with me and they were saying, "Oh,
what's alcohol?" And it was like, "Man,
sugar is 10 times worse than alcohol."
Like, because sugar sends you in a state
of depression, right? You know what I
mean? Um, if if you're strong enough,
you could like just kind of like rub off
alcohol. But alcohol turns into sugar.
Let's
do every
turn. He's drinking water now. He went
to the bathroom twice. Me and Dory has
been here for 4 hours. Hey, you guys.
Yo, listen guys. Four bottles. I'm
questioning what is going on with you
guys. Skinny.
Let's drink that. So, I'm drinking. I'm
drinking. Let's do it. Drink. So, let's
say that famous incident. That famous
that famous incident on in the Grammys.
Was it the Grammys where Yeah. when
walks and he says, "We tags for the
children." Yeah. Like, what happened
that time? Y'all didn't win written the
award. Yeah. I don't know the exact
thing. I wasn't physically there. Mhm.
But um he was he said something that was
actually profound. I mean they gave the
best hip-hop album. Was it hip- hop or
rap? What's the category? Yeah, same
[__] to them. They gave they gave it to
um I think P Diddy at that time
versus Wuang.
It's like that don't make sense, right?
No disrespect to their creativity and
what they gained and all their record
sales. It's almost like
uh if I was to ask you guys right now.
Thank you. No disrespect. He sold the
most records out of all of us. If I told
you who was a better rapper, Vanilla Ice
or Nas
and and somebody say Vanilla Ice, how
you going to react? And I ain't saying
Pet doesn't know Vanilla Ice. I'm just
saying Yeah, I know what you're saying.
So now I sold more records than Nas.
Right. Right. I I get what exactly what
you're saying. But who has a better
album? I mean hip-hop wise. Plus. Yeah.
I mean, who has a better hip-hop life?
Who has a better hip-hop thing? It's
not. Absolutely. Like if you're hip-hop.
Exactly. And like So that's what Dirty
was saying. It's like, yo, you know, Wu
Tang for the chill. Yeah, Puffy is
great. He was speaking for hip-hop.
Yeah. Yeah. Puffy is good. Puffy is
great. Puffy just did what he did. But
Wuang,
you know what I'm saying? He says for
the children meaning he meant like, yo,
it's better, right? Right. It's better
for you, right? Wuang is it's a better
bet, right? You know what I mean? And
and and
to do that [__] No, that's once again,
that's freedom. What? Think about this.
I don't cuz I wasn't there, but let's
just imagine this for us, guys. So,
here's a guy in the audience
that's not given no announcement
tonight. He's not scheduled for no
appearance on the stage. OBV. Yeah, but
he was dressed like it though. He He
sharp. He's dressed sharp. He He says,
"I spent $3,000 on my suit."
He said it on the mic. I remember that.
But imagine here's a guy that's not, you
know, they got a list. He ain't
scheduled on the list.
How the [__] he get from his seat
through the auditorium to the security
to the mic?
That's how he walking with Mariah Carey.
I'm making this up. Okay, even if he did
that, okay, how how did how and how did
he end up on the stage where everybody's
like looking at their sheets looking at
their Q sheets like what the this is not
in the show program. They respected
Kanye West been his [__] Yeah. Kanye
Kanye. Kanye Kanye said it. Look, Kanye
did it this way, right? When Kanye did
it to Taylor Swift. Yeah, he did it to
Taylor Swift, but he walked from his
seat right there in the front up the
steps. Right. Right. Dirty had to do
some [__] like
We didn't But we didn't know that. He
wasn't even close. No, we don't know
where he came from, bro. He's not even
on the other shots of the camera. If you
watch the whole episode of the show, you
don't even see the shot. He must have
gone fast soon to get there. Listen, he
pull some [__] off that only a free man
could pull off.
He's like, "Fuck everything."
Steve Ripken said that he was that he
Steve Rifin said that he was at his
house 10 minutes prior. I don't know if
that god damn, but but anyway, cuz Steve
lived on 50th Street around that time,
right? and he said he came to his crib
before and after. So that's a whole
another story that we'll get from Steve
one day. Steve don't drink, but he
didn't drink. But anyway, the freedom of
dirty was bottled up while he was in
jail. And when he came out, he was not
himself. And and when he got to
Rockefeller, he was not himself. And we
never got a chance to feel the full
shedding of everything that was upon him
to let the unique Asan blossom again.
But we've been blessed through the
through the mercy of Allah that his son
WDB goes on tour with the Wu. I like
that. I like that so much. Performs all
his fathers and that's a another
blessing for our family. I I'm not going
to lie to you. I forget what um cuz I
went to the Paris show. I forget what
other show this wasn't the on tour. This
was like just a random woo show you like
two Woo shows I went to and I sent him
on stage and I was like, "Yo, DB still
got it." And I was thought to myself
like, "What the fuck?" I was like, "Yo,
snap out of it." Like, cuz you you you
don't you like he has his brains of like
like like he has energy. Yeah. So, and
I'm meaning I know it's OB son, but his
he he he he embraces the character so
much that I don't call him OB son. I say
I call him OB, but me saying that I like
I'm like, wait a minute. That's kind of
like crazy. So, um let's make let's take
a shot for a shot for ODB and YDB. Mhm.
Man, it's about to open. How much we got
left? No, we
about to take. Okay, go ahead. Go first.
I'm go after you. Yeah. And I'm going
after everybody cuz I look I got to take
No need to be uncomfortable. So, let's
let's let's get in. First off, you have
so many movies, so many uh uh things
that you score, so many. But let's talk
about this. You got a new movie, a new
project, new. Yes, indeed. Yes, indeed.
Let's Let's take a shot for it first.
Take a shot first. We're taking a shot
to my new film. film is called One Spoon
of Chocolate. One Spoon of Chocolate
Spoon of Chocolate. And this is your
film. My film. Bung Bang.
Directed, written, written, directed,
directed. Bottom RZA. Produced by my
wife. Oh wow. You know what I mean? So
double bum bum. Double bum. Double bum.
Double bum.
I mean, you told me that your wife, she
has two juice. Yeah. Yeah. She's on her
way. She'll be here in a second. So I
mean, let's talk about that for a quick
second. We'll talk about the movie, but
the beauty of of the power of
the wisdom or the woman. That's right.
Right. A lot of dudes, especially in the
generation before us, there was so so
many pimps and that culture was the
mindset of our people. We didn't
recognize the value of the woman.
There's like in the in the there's a
sample on Cuban links where the guy
says, "Yeah, man. I keep a [__] When I
got a [__] I keep a bitch." He said,
"I give her money. Sorry, I give her
clothes, jewelry, but no money." Cuz I
give a girl money, she liable, but lose
her mind.
Right? So, the old school mindset was
that don't give your woman the money.
You control the money and let her just
have some clothing and jewelry.
That's foolish because who take care of
your house? M who take care of the home?
The woman who's going to make sure the
kids go to school and and and put the
kids in their proper clothing and their
proper Yeah. How she going to do that?
She got to wait for you to write the
check. Yeah. So, the jewel that people
forgot
is that kings
don't build castles for kings.
For queens. A king build a castle for
the queen. That mis That's right. You
know what it is. King builds castles. He
doesn't know what it is. Sorry.
He He felt that. He's like, "Yo, we
don't build, we didn't build it for
ourselves. We go to war and do all the
spoils of war to bring back home to our
wisdom, right? Because knowledge and
wisdom borns what? Understanding.
Understanding. That means you the
knowledge, you're the foundation. But
you got to put it through the wisdom.
The wisdom is the woman symbolic to
what? The womb.
If you put it through the womb, you'll
get a light. You put it in your hand. A
lot of these kids don't got girls. You
put it in your hand and nothing going to
happen, right?
Yeah. It's not going to happen. You need
that wisdom to carry that seed of life.
But that seed of life is not just
physical. Sometime it's mental,
spiritual, economical, social,
metaphysical. Metaphysical. There we go.
So, I want to just add that to the
conversation because we My wife's here,
too. Right there. She's your wife over
there. Bang bang. There you So, let's
take a shot to the wives. A shot to the
wives. Shot to the wives. To the wives.
Cheers.
Me and No, we know already. You know.
Yeah. Yeah. No, he's married too. Yeah,
I'm married. I'm asking you. Yeah, I'm
married. [__] I know. It's like when we
ask you between these guys, you're like,
"But what do you mean?
Which way?" Yeah. Which way? Yeah. No,
I'm married. I'm married. Yeah. But no,
but you you agree with us. Absolutely.
Yeah. You guys over here at Koch
brothers. No, they
married one guy. Yo, that's the name of
the section.
Yo, we still going get you though.
All right. So, bunk bunk. So, now it's
important though, yo, because our
culture Yeah. has been been called
misogynistic. Yeah. And then our women
are now rapping harder than us. One
girl, she's like she Yeah. She's Yeah.
They they they rapping Yeah. for the
dick now, right? You know what I mean?
So, it's getting crazy. But we need to
know that there's a position. That's why
it says the sun and the moon have an
attracting power over our planet. When
the lesson says that, they're saying
that the planet is is is your life or
your child's life. And the mother and
the father both have attracting powers
and influential powers over that planet.
And if they grow that planet right,
they'll grow healthy. But if they don't
grow it right, it's going to go through
rain, hell, snow, and earthquakes.
And so they continue every day. The
earth travels at the speed of 1,00 to
371 miles per hour as it's moving around
the sun. Right? But yet
the ideas is drawn up into the earth's
rotations, which is called gravitation.
When you think about that though, the
child idea is taken in by the mother.
What happens when the father's not
there?
It ruins the gravitational pole. Yeah.
Now she got to try to explain the the
the the the the mathematics of the sun.
The moon is there as what? To reflect
the light of the sun, right? Not to be
the light of the sun. M we grew up
probably single parent where our mothers
had to be
the man and the woman she had to be the
knowledge and wisdom and she can't do
that right like she did the best she can
and thanks to us or thanks I'll say
thank in my life we could say thanks to
the mathematics that the the father
that's why we call the father the father
because x yeah he became a father to
brothers who didn't have a father right
he gave him that knowledge
Is that is that how they how they
started calling him the father? I didn't
know that. No, they called him the
father cuz he was the father of that
idea. Okay. So the father of idea father
means one who furthers or father. That's
why I said he took you father. He took
you father. And also in the first what's
what's the uh opening of the Quran?
What's the first chapter of the Quran?
Anybody? The fata
the fah. The beginning. Oh the fata.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's where you get this
father from. But still he furthered our
education. So he became the father of
us. But also even that's a spiritual but
even a mental and a physical thing he
becomes your father because you don't
got your father there to tell you the
basic science that knowledge means to
know to look to listen to observe and to
respect.
Now you may know something but you ain't
listen.
Listening is not observing.
Observing and seeing is two different
things. You can see it, but you didn't
observe it.
And you could do all those things and
not respect it.
And you're going to have a problem if
you don't complete every action of
knowledge.
And then that leads to our wisdom. So
these type of things,
these type of things are important. We
going back to our wives. They are the
wisdom. So that knowledge goes through
the wisdom. The wisdom is not just a
wise dome because you have to have a
wise dome. Dome means what? Domain.
You got to have something wise in where
you domain at.
Your domain must have wise and wisdom in
it or it ain't home. But if you have
that knowledge and you get to that
wisdom, wisdom they say also the
accumulation of experience. Those
experiences you put into your woman.
Even when a man makes love to his
woman's,
he's putting his accumulated experience
into it.
That sperm cell that travels inside your
woman before it made your child, you got
children. Yeah. Two children.
The sperm cell, the scientists have
already looked at it.
It has
one molecule of air.
So this molecule
of air. Now what is the sun comprised
of? Hydrogen and helium.
Right? So you have a molecule of air
that comprises all these gases of air.
Now air I said in one of my lyrics but
I'll just give you some of them.
Hydrogen, helium, zenon, freon, argon,
you know I mean carbon, you know what I
mean? Oxygen. And these are all it's
main mainly eight main gases. I put it
in the lyrics so so brothers could study
that. If they don't listen to me, they
won't hear my beats. Right?
But I put it in there so we can know
that now this this this organic life is
carrying a molecule of that to a clot of
blood
that your woman has 30 days living her
life eating, smoking, drinking, or
better not eat and smoking. whoever
she's doing her 30 days of her life,
she's accumulated all that energy and
it's went down to this egg waiting in
the cloud of blood. And then you when
you having sex with your woman, you take
that sexual energy, all that air is
coming in. When you feel that first
there, I'm not making this up. When you
come, when you feel that first,
you you feel it here first, bro. When
you when you come, can we agree men?
When you have an orgasm, what do you
feel that first? Here
before it goes here. It triggers in your
mind first. It's like bam. That's
euphoria. Okay. Euphoria. Okay. I
respect that. I I was in a second. So
now it went from a gas
to a liquid
and it travels as a liquid.
Now the sperm cell knows where to go.
It's not like where [__] going.
He's headed to a direct destination
mission upstream like a salmon fighting
fighting. It's fighting
with the Steve Har. He said salmon
survey say salmon. Like a salmon. I said
it right. I did a Steve Salman.
It travels it travels upstream
knowing where it's going, bro. To reach
the egg. And when it gets there, do you
know this? Not to get too deep on it,
but you could cut it [__] how you want
to cut it. But when it gets there,
anything
you do, you do. Whatever you do, that's
up to you. When it gets to the egg,
right? only is when it first get there
about nine sperm cells make it. One guy
is leading though he's like I can do it.
I can. He gets there right? Hussein
bolt. Yeah. Hussein bolt get the bolt of
lightning in there. When he goes in,
what do the other eight sperm cells do?
They give up. Non cipher. No. They
surround it and form a corona. They help
him out. They form the eight points of
the sun, brother. Ah. And they stop
anything else from entering. He's in
there, bro. He's an A. He's like, "Yo,
you always in there getting pissy, kid.
You can do it."
So, so check it out. So, the sperm cell
knows where to go.
But even more deeper that we don't pay
attention to, the egg cell knows where
to wait.
It's not like it's waiting over here,
[__] It's like, I'm waiting for you
right here. The strong [__] that
could bring me those chromosomes, I'm
waiting for it. Right behind your head
right now, I see two X chromosomes. Look
at that. It has two X.
So like No, no. Right. Right behind
right behind you. No two X. So So in the
in the body of the female body, there's
this two X chromosomes. I'm speaking in
a major way. Not going through all the
different 20, but majorly it's two X.
And it's in a man though, he has a X and
a Y. M the X in mathematics is the 24th
letter and it's known it's it's the
symbol for what is unknown. This is why
we have to use X as a multiplication. So
when this is going Muslims they they
would say Malcolm X is because he didn't
know his last name. His last name was
the slave master. Okay.
So when you get that X though and it's
also multiplication. So when that sperm
hits that egg it's going to be a
multiplication. The chances of it being
a man is 3 to one. M because you have
her have two ex 3 to one. So that's why
people are celebrating a man. Yeah.
Chances likely. No, it's not likely.
It's three to one chance you're going to
get a man. Wow. Oh, that I didn't know
that. Three to one chance you're going
to get a woman. No. No. It's likely to
be a girl. It's three chances for one
for a woman, one chance for a man. Wow.
Which is natural because you need in
order for population to multiply, you
need women. women. If you get a guy, you
get a bunch of guys,
uh, you stop playing basketball, stop
playing basketball, stop playing
basketball. But in a lot of in a lot of
people, like a lot of, uh, different
cultures, they celebrate the man because
obviously that's not the norm, right?
Cuz the man is what we call the
lifegiver, right? But the woman is a
life receiver.
She receives that life. She receives all
your [__] bro, good and bad. And
she takes that to that sperm. And when
that sperm cell hits that egg cell, it
delivers all the data and information of
you. It also delivers what you was
thinking.
But within it, like I was trying to say,
there's a molecule of air
and that's one spark of energy. That
spark of energy is going to now cause
everything because it's in organic and
inorganic is happening.
And when it starts, it's a bomb. It's
like a bomb. It's the big bang. Uh
scientists call it the big bang. Big
bang theory but in in this form it is
the same. No, I believe it. Yeah. The
big bang theory happens there because
once that sponsor hits that egg and it
starts multiplying, how many cells does
the human body starts producing?
Trillions. How many stars we have?
Trillions. Exactly. So Allah is the
greatest. Allah started with the thought
of it. put that thought, that energy and
that organic atom and inorganic matter,
sent that through and bring forth this
new life. Now, we started this by saying
the woman and being the queen and why we
build our castles is because yo g
that's the that's why the brothers call
it the earth,
right? And the lessons say uh the planet
earth is the home of Islam. Let's just
take that for a second. Nory, you read
that lesson before, brother? Absolutely.
Okay. It said the planet Earth is the
home of Islam. Islam is the Arabic word
that means what? Anybody? What does
Islam peace exactly? It's Earth is the
home of peace. Why are we not at peace
on Earth? Because all the other planets
are not the home of peace. the other
planets. You got to send a spaceship to
Mars to get a sample of dirt to hope you
find a organic life.
You might find a little molecule or some
[__] like bung bang
here, [__] I could cough on a piece of
bread, throw it in a closet, and a whole
tree will grow out of it. [__]
this is the home of Islam.
Okay, I won't go too deep on that, but
anyway, but your woman is considered
your earth
because through her all possibilities
are there. So, we don't fight war or
work every day or do everything for our
own. We do it as a king to build a
castle for our queen so we could give
birth to a prince. M I call all my sons
and my nephews. My nephews over there
right now listening. If he if I if he
answer the phone right now,
young Divine, you over there, can you
hear me? Yes. If I call you on the
phone, what do I say to you first? What
I what I call you? Prince.
Peace. Prince,
I want to know he's a prince. Yo, his
father's a king. But I do the same to my
sons and I'll do the same to your sons
because this journey is only made of
kings and queens. Took a shot to the
kings and queens. To the kings and
queens. So bum bum to the kings.
All right. Talking about movies. Wait.
Loyalty. Loyalty or respect? And then we
want to get into your movies and rap.
Loyalty or respect? Loyalty. Loyalty.
No. Sorry about that. We we uh cut that.
Edit that. Pour the liquor. Yeah.
Put that and keep it in. Loyalty or
respect? Both. Exactly.
We going back down a little. We going,
bro. This feel a little down there.
Strong. This one is uh Yeah. From the
top. Yeah. Yeah. We going down. Let's We
need to go down. We going to land. Be
honest. That ceramic [__] Yeah. I ain't
say nothing but that [__] is mad strong.
I feel like they gave you more. I feel I
feel a little envious. No, we went we
went and bought some though, right? We
We bought I feel like I feel like I only
had three shots of it. I should have had
six. Yeah. Yeah. No, we bought We bought
We bought some. You got more? Yeah. I
need some juice, sir. We going to the
beach for that tomorrow. How you doing?
They call me Ny Cha. Where in Japan?
They call me Naughty Cha. I like that.
Naughty. Naughty.
Why I pick loyalty and respect? Yeah. N
because yo, first of all, if you got
loyalty and no respect, where the [__]
you at? You like, I'm down with you,
son, but I don't like you. Like, I'm
[__] with you, my [__] but I can't
wait to [__] step over you. Loyalty
and respect is a [__] that loyal to
you, but can't wait to take your
position.
Loyalty and respect cuz he's loyal and
he respect your position. Respect
without loyalty. I respect you. I
respect you, right, [__] I can't wait
to I let these [__] kill you. This is
the best. This is the best ass.
Let's be real though. Let's be real. You
need both of those. Yeah. Yeah. We need
both. We need both of those. So So now
let's let's let's talk about this these
movies. Well, hold up. I want to get
before the movies here. Yeah, because
this we got to rap. I know. I I want to
wrap up.
We I came here with something, bro. Let
me tell you something, bro. Listen to
this. I know I already said this is you.
This is the first Woo Tank show in
Miami. That's crazy. That's the flyer.
Can I take a look at that show? Yeah,
that that was like Twitter back then.
You passed this to me.
This is ancient Twitter. Look at this.
No, listen to me. Ancient Twitter. It
is. It is. Yeah, it is.
Ancient ancient ancient to me personally
as a hip-hop head. This is full circle
for me. Oh, that's a blessing to be a
fan. Oh, you were there? I was.
Absolutely. No, I'm asking. I Yes, bro.
I wouldn't have a fly if I wasn't there,
bro. I I'm annoying. But look at look at
the list. Okay. Go ahead. It's Wuang
Clan, right? Exclusive performance. It
says Miami Hip Hop 94. Yep. Right. Uh
Mother Superior. Yep. I see that. I get
to Mother Superior. What's that? That's
above or below. No, she's there
somewhere. I think I know Mother
Superior very well. But anyway, it says
in association with All right. It starts
off with I ain't going to read the whole
[__] All right. But anyway, so Miami
Hip Hop 1994 part one exclusive
performance of Wu Exclusive performance
of Wuang Kan also performing live.
That's true. Demi D. You know Demi D. He
knows him. We You don't know him though,
kid. Funky Black Snow. Yep. In the
Nation of Hoods. Mhm. That's dope.
Mother Superior. Mother Superior.
XXX.
Wait.
Wait, the first Xioon. No.
Triple X wa
solid waste. Solid waste. That's Paul,
right?
And and more. Remember and read the
venue. The venue.
Fat Beast by DJ Chris. Shout out to
That's DJ Classic. Now, respect. Uh,
Wednesday, February 9th, 1994 at the
spacious Mahi Temple. Mahi Temple. I
said a Mahi Temple Auditorium. That's
crazy. And you know what's so beautiful
though is that Do you guys remember at
all? Do you remember that at all? I I
remember coming to Damn, I'm drinking. I
hate when I started making that that
blah blah blah. C certain certain
syllables just leave your mouth when
you're drinking. The R and the W are
very challenging.
But I remember
going to Miami. But don't ruin my flyer,
please. I'm sorry, guys. I thought I
thought this was a gift. No, no, no. Not
at all. Not at all. This is my guy.
All right. What else you got? What else
you got? I got Give me one more. One
more. I bought this tape. That's the
first Wuang record I bought. And then I
And then my brother Paul Dream Chan
Sports. That's a new That's new kid. No,
that's new. He gave me this as a gift
recently. Oh man, thank you, brother.
And grave. I bought that myself as well.
And this this is the time that old dirty
bastard turned over. You was there. Of
course I was there. You know the story?
I know the story. He turned the [__]
They call me after. Listen. Wait. What?
Look at this. Okay. You want that story?
Effing. Tell us a story. But how you
going to call me EFN the whole time and
then effing now?
Hold on.
Hold on. Slow down. Black black dudes
always shorten anybody name. You know
that once a black guy get to know you.
He going to shorten your [__]
No. I gave you the short version after 4
hours. I'm like EFA
epic.
I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. Break that [__]
down, fam.
Tell us. I don't know what you're
talking about. This was an incredible
at. Where was this at? Uh, if was it DJ
one? Yeah. Was this at um on the flyer?
It's on the fly. No, no, no, no. It's
not really It's actually not really on
the fly. Cal. Yeah, Khali was there
temple. If I remember right, this is the
one with Audrey Bastard. Turn the
speakers in. Yeah. Yeah, he he threw him
over. Yeah. Okay. Okay. You didn't hook
us up. Oh, look. Look. Even if it's not
this story. I was there for that one as
well. Even if it's not this flyer. Okay.
Here go the story. Okay.
E FN
I
expand
FN cuz I was like we was flowing
as well as
Let me take a moment though. Let me take
a moment. Listen, bro. Let me tell you.
Listen
the reset. I'm good. I got to take a
moment, bro. Yo, listen. I love watching
you. Let me just give you some shine cuz
we've been giving the god some shine.
But we just put the mic over. the put
the light on him.
Put the room symbol. I really appreciate
you, yo. Your your poise, your reaction,
your knowledge, your experience of with
hip-hop culture and everybody that every
guest that you make them feel like like
like it's almost like your your timing
and your punchlines, whether it's
editing or not. No, we don't edit really
a lot. No, no, no. It's good, bro. And
and I I know you know. Thank you for
trying to hear your argument. Yeah, I I
had to look at my eyes. You see him and
Tony Yo? I saw that. But but you know
what? I loved it. We punt that. We'll
punt that. I I won't comment on that. I
mean, listen, I I'm right with that. The
movies now. But no, let me let me let me
let me go to the story and you can chop
the ODB story. Let me chop all [__] up.
No, I was there. I was there. I want I
want to say on the microphone so people
see me. My wife is like, "Nigga, flag."
But
I appreciate you, bro. I appreciate you
supremely for what you started here.
What you started in the culture and we
vote TV don't exist no more without you.
That's right. Well, us
[Applause]
but your chamber adds a lot to this,
bro. They know that. Okay. Okay. And I
might 5 years from now, 5 years from
now, I might [__] with you. No, don't do
that. No. No. I got my own brand. It's
called fast forward time.
He said rewind. He got fast forward.
You ain't got to lie. All you got to do
all you got to do fast.
Hold on, bro. Who's this guy? Who's
that?
Who's that guy right there? Look at the
other guy. That's That's my man right
there. That's you right there, too.
He's the boy I want. He's the white.
That's the That's That's the rum dry.
No, he's been white. He's white. You
still leaving on the You still leaving
on? Yeah. I like it. Yo, that's what I
was bleaching.
[__]
You know what though? Why? Why? Let's
take a shot of that. One last question.
Why is it green and black like the
monster?
This This version is the rough draft.
These are the real
Let's get one together.
It has nothing to do with the monster.
But everything to do with the monster.
Why is it green and black, bro? Wait,
what? Everything is [__] Them [__]
with the fame si in the can. Look at the
monster. It's not monster.
My [__] Hold on.
Which brand was first? Which one? Who
had the first promotion? Monster.
Monster.
Yeah. All of us all together. But they
was like, "No, we got a great idea for
you, brother. We got a great idea, but
we're going to do is green and black."
No, no, no, no, no. Hold on. Hold on,
bro. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. No
disrespect to my brother. No. I He going
He going to get mad at me. And I got to
lift my weights and get my strength up.
I've been drinking, so I'm going have to
face this when I face it. Uhhuh. Uh, I'm
going say it. [__] it. I'm going. You
ready? Yeah. I would love to see Ghost
Face on that box. Ghost Face. Oh, hell
yeah. Ghost Face is verine. Yo, let's
get Gold Ghost face on the box. Yo,
Ghost, no disrespect.
No big back Tony B. I still know my kung
fu, so you know that. But I can see your
face on the box. So, you know, I ain't
going to lie. I seen It's a great part.
It's a real great part of I seen Ray
Quan the other day. His [__] look like
he had the S curl in his bed. The
rewind.
No. What the [__] is that?
Yes. No.
Yeah, you know that's my brother. I know
it's a brother. Okay. So, you think
Rayquan can give you his face? I think I
think Ray goh Ghost or Ray? I'm putting
you on the spot. Ghost or Ray for Oh,
you can say both. Hold on. If you say
ghost or both ghost or Rayquan for the
rewind box
[Applause]
one more time and that's it. Did we talk
about we never talk about so the movie
take the picture? Yeah. I did the story
or [__] the story. No [__] you good. No
you the story. The story was ODB. No, we
did the story. I didn't say it. No, I
didn't say it. You don't need it. You
don't need it. No, we need it. Oh, the
story. Yeah. Yeah. You didn't say the
story. So, we need that story. That
story anyway. So, so, so Meth Man and
Red Man's performance is in Miami. Yes.
So, we in Miami. No, no, no, not live.
Not live. Uh, that's Princess Club. You
there? Yeah. Absolutely. I was there.
Now, who's controlling the whole party
that night? Well, I don't know. I'm a
fan. Def Jam is controlling the whole
party. But, is it this one? It's I don't
know. Yes, it's Death Jam. Look, turn
around, bro. You see that? It's Death
Jam's party. Okay. Yeah. Okay. All
right. So,
Meth Man Red Man is signed to death jam.
Cable. I remember. I remember that. Like
it was signed to death jam. I remember
that cable came out and felt
disrespected. OB. Yeah, R boy came with
but OB is not Yo K.
Okay.
So now cuz Meth you're making all the
sense right now. Meth was mad. Meth
don't get mad a lot about what we do but
he was a little mad about this cuz he
really felt like it was a little bit
little bit beyond the boundaries. What
was beyond them boundaries? Okay. If OD
listen ODB is known for destroying your
show, right? If you if you talk to Quest
Love and them right now, they be like,
"Oh yeah, remember that night ODB came?"
Yeah. He took over the show, ended it,
party was over, right? You go to Flavor
Public anybody. ODB is known for it.
He's no Yeah, he not part of the bill.
He's destroying shows. He's just in the
He's a show destroyer. One night he
brought me to a show and destroyed it.
Yeah. He was like, "Yo, God, come with
me, meet me." I met him. He was like,
"Yo, let's go [__] these [__] up
and we I like, you know, it's like I
roll with him. When I'm with him, I'm
with him." Right. We go up and we
destroy the show.
He's like, "This shit." He said, "This
[__] ain't real enough." You know what I
mean? Him and Aanelli one night Yeah.
was fighting over the mic. You remember
that one? Yes. Yes. Honest [__] He
did it. ODB will come to your [__] and
in Miami he got jumped. Listen, you know
that, right? Listen, hold on. After if
it ain't what he wants,
he going if he don't feel it, he going
to [__] it up. That night, Meth and Red
was doing their [__] Cableton was next
cuz I I got OD story. I got me story. I
was I'm right there, bro. Meth and um
they did meth. Come on. Who wants deny
meth and red man? But O DB
I guess he wanted to be part of it that
night and it was meth so he can't be he
can't do it to the world was like but he
felt like and I guess meth I don't know
what meth did to him meth was like he
tried to like tell the chill said ODB
was kind of a little zoned out you know
what I mean he was a little bit on E a
little bit past the level right but he
wanted to get on they was like nah this
don't let the guard on the guard is not
and they didn't let him on
and they they did their [__]
whatever. They leave this [__] stage
and they let OD be on. OD be like,
"These [__] are let me on."
Yeah. And then Cable is next, man. I
remember that. [__] that [__] All this
[__] is weak. And he went on
and he got I mean before the show ended
though, he did this because they won't
let him on. They said before the show
ended, he went on stage and he turned
the turntables off over. No, he brought
the speakers down. Bro, listen. Hold on.
First, he started with the turntables.
He turned the DJ set over, start pulling
down speakers. Yo, it was saying like,
yo, [__] this show. Wang's the best. It
was wild. It was wild. It was wild. Yo,
and Cton is everybody's like, he look,
he ain't even on the Bills. Like like we
look at the bill,
his name is not there.
He's just happen to be in Miami.
Meet the man's brother is happen to be
performing
and he's like, "Oh [__] I'm going to
[__] with my brother and I'm going to
take over the show." He's also known for
that. ODB will come to your [__] which
is in a good way. If I did a show and
ODB showed up, [__] I could take a 30
minute break cuz he going to do this
[__] and they going to love it and I
could be like, "Boom, finish." All
right, cool. Hey, I can come back out
and do my [__] That night they didn't
let him on.
They was like, "Nipher, God."
And he was like, "Nah, cipher n cipher
boo."
He threw speakers on the floor. It was
wild. And we all witnessed it. So that's
the ODB story. Anyway, shout out to ODB.
Hell yeah. Hell yeah.
Rest in peace OB. All right. So, let me
get my best face on.
We got to tell us big business. Big
business now. Okay. We going big
business. He's got you. Yeah. And you
directing? No, I'm not. You're doing
good. You're doing good. And and and you
directed written and directed by Arza.
So this it's like it's not like the
shows in the middle. You know what I
mean? We didn't have all this [__] in
our system.
Okay. And we going to get our tea up.
Let me get like cuz this is
professional. This movie cost $10
million to make. Name of the movie. It's
called One Spoon of Chocolate.
Um so this movie started like this.
Um, I've been good in life. Life is
good. I leverage some assets
and me and my wife was looking for maybe
another place to another, you know, real
estate. We've been doing good in real
estate. So, we thought we' buy another
house. We saw a beautiful house. It was
like Bama Lama. Mhm. It was like the
waterfall was from the ceiling, then the
pool. I like it. Yeah. Yeah. See what I
mean? I like it. You know what I mean?
California, too. Mhm. Don't think about
the fires. M. So we saw in the house was
like bamlam. I said, "Yo, yeah, I could
build a studio right there. No steps."
No steps. It's like more like it's like
a dormatory type of studio. Probably
9,000 square ft. Very beautiful place.
Thank you. Hey, Bong Bong. I got a
witness. I got a witness. No, it was
real. And I was like, "Wow, this is
beautiful, baby." But let me ask you a
question. you want to buy a new house or
make a movie? And she looked at me,
she's like, well, what do you want to
do?
I was like, make a movie. And she's
like, okay, let's make a movie. So, she
killed her idea
and roll with my idea.
And so,
and this happened during the New York
State Mind Tour. Mhm. All my ones are
up. You know what I mean? And on the
back of the bus, I just kept writing. I
started the script 13 years ago
after I made a movie called Man with the
Iron Fist. I started writing this script
and even the executives of Universal,
the executives at Universal, my man uh
Adam Fogson was the chief executive and
I was like, "Adam, I got a couple ideas
for my next film." Cuz man with Iron
Fist, it wasn't a smash, but it made his
money back and everybody made a few
million dollars, right? Mind you, a few
million dollars in the movie business is
not good. M it's cool. It's just like we
didn't lose money. Pay the janitors, you
know what I mean? Cuz you need to make
100 to make 200. That's Yeah. But still,
nobody lost money [__] with me. So
you get another chance to dance. And so
I told Adam, I was like, I got a couple
ideas. I start pitching these ideas.
But the one that he said that sounded
like it had market value was this one
spoon of chocolate.
And so he said, he told me, you know,
chase chase that one. I said, "All
right, cool." That's what he's telling
you. He told me, "Chase that one." Okay,
continue. So I leave
and I I start chasing it and I get stuck
at page 40.
That's that. I made two other movies,
bro. I got stuck for 10 years at page
40.
After two other movies, my brother Paul
Hall, Paul Hall, you may know Paul Hall
from he did a lot of Tyler Perry. Oh,
Paul Hall did a lot of John Singleton,
Shaft, Higher Learning. Okay. So, Paul's
that producer that guided John Singleton
through. Okay. And I met him because
there was another movie. He was like,
uh, they they let Lions get hired me.
Lions get hired me to do a movie and
Paul was producing and Bunk Bong and me
and Paul was there, right? So anyway,
now we get to a point,
you know, 2015,
I I start writing again on this movie. I
get 20 more pages and bamalama froze
again. Nothing. It's like I don't know
what to do with this movie. I don't know
how to finish it. I don't know where
they going. I'm stuck. And then we just
go. But then the writer strike happened.
They might know when the writer strike
happened a few years ago. I'm on the New
York state of mind tour. I just asked my
wife, "What you want to do?" She said,
"Make a movie." I started digging
through all my my ideas. I got like 20
ideas. I got 20 pages, 10 pages, 80
pages, five pages. And this one, I read
to her. She said, "I like where that's
going." She didn't know where I was
going to end, but I like where it's
going. And I eventually uh on a tour on
the back of that tour bus, my wife on
one pillow, me on one pillow,
I wrote the whole movie.
By the end of the tour, I had it. We had
the economics. We had some other
financial partners that was down with me
and we went and made this movie. It's
called One Spoon of Chocolate. It's
going to premiere at the Tribeca Film
Festival. New York City. New York City.
Shout out.
When is that? It's going to premiere
June 8th at the Tribeca Film Festival in
New York City. One Spoon of Chocolate.
June 8th, New York City Tribeca Film
Festival. World premiere. Come [__] with
us. Bong B.
Oh, I like that. I got Yo, I ain't going
to lie. I fly back on June 8th.